<doc id="214730" title="henry hallam" nonfiltered="1" processed="1" dbindex="0">
henry hallam (july 9, 1777 - january 21, 1859) was an  english historian.

the only son of john hallam, canon of windsor and dean of bristol, he was educated at eton and christ church, oxford, graduating in 1799. called to the bar, he practised for some years on the oxford circuit; but his tastes were literary, and when, on his father's death in 1812, he inherited a small estate in lincolnshire, he gave himself up wholly to academic study. he had become connected with the brilliant band of authors and politicians who led the whig party, a connection to which he owed his appointment to the well-paid and easy post of commissioner of stamps; but took no part in politics himself.  he was, however, an active supporter of many popular movements--particularly of that which ended in the abolition of the slave trade; and he was sincerely attached to the political principles of the whigs. 

hallam's earliest literary work was undertaken in connexion with the great organ of the whig party, the edinburgh review, where his review of scott's dryden attracted attention. his first great work, the view of the state of europe during the middle ages, was produced in 1818, and was followed nine years later by the constitutional history of england. in 1838-1839 appeared the introduction to the literature of europe in the 15th, 16th and 17th centuries.  these are the three works on which hallam's fame rests. they took a place in english literature which was not seriously challenged until the 20th century. a volume of supplemental notes to his middle ages was published in 1848; these facts and dates represent nearly all of hallam's career. the strongest personal interest in his life was the affliction which befell him in the loss of his children, one after another. his eldest son, arthur henry hallam--the "a.h.h." of tennyson's in memoriam, and by the testimony of his contemporaries a man of the most brilliant promise--died in 1833 at the age of twenty-two. seventeen years later, his second son, henry fitzmaurice hallam, was cut off like his brother at the very threshold of what might have been a great career. the premature death and high talents of these young men, and the association of one of them with the most popular poem of the age, have made hallam's family afflictions better known than any other incidents of his life. he survived wife, daughter and sons by many years.

in 1834 hallam published the remains in prose and verse of arthur henry hallam, with a sketch of his life. in 1852 a selection of literary essays and characters from the literature of europe was published. hallam was a fellow of the royal society, and a trustee of the british museum, and enjoyed many other appropriate distinctions. in 1830 he received the gold medal for history, founded by george iv.  the middle ages is described by hallam himself as a series of historical dissertations, a comprehensive survey of the chief circumstances that can interest a philosophical inquirer during the period from the 5th to the 15th century. the work consists of nine long chapters, each of which is a complete treatise in itself. the history of france, of italy, of spain, of germany, and of the greek and saracenic empires, sketched in rapid and general terms, is the subject of five separate chapters. others deal with the great institutional features of medieval society--the development of the feudal system, of the ecclesiastical system, and of the free political system of england. the last chapter sketches the general state of society, the growth of commerce, manners, and literature in the middle ages. the book may be regarded as a general view of early modern history, preparatory to the more detailed treatment of special lines of inquiry carried out in his subsequent works, although hallam's original intention was to continue the work on the scale on which it had been begun. 

the constitutional history of england takes up the subject at the point at which it had been dropped in the view of the middle ages, viz, the accession of henry vii, and carries it down to the accession of george iii. hallam stopped here for a characteristic reason, which it is impossible not to respect and to regret. he was unwilling to excite the prejudices of modern politics which seemed to him to run back through the whole period of the reign of george iii; nevertheless, he was accused of bias.  the quarterly review for 1828 contains an article on the constitutional history, written by southey, full of reproach. the work, he says. is the "production of a decided partisan," who "rakes in the ashes of long-forgotten and a thousand times buried slanders, for the means of heaping obloquy on all who supported the established institutions of the country." hallam's view of constitutional history was that it should contain only so much of the political and general history of the time as bears directly on specific changes in the organization of the state, including judicial as well as ecclesiastical institutions.  it was his cool treatment of such sanctified names as charles i, cranmer and laud that provoked the indignation of southey, who forgot that the same impartial measure was extended to statesmen on the other side.

if hallam ever deviated from perfect fairness, it was in the tacit assumption that the 19th century theory of the constitution was the right theory in previous centuries, and that those who departed from it on one side or the other were in the wrong. he did unconsciously antedate the constitution, and it is clear from incidental allusions in his last work that he did not favour the democratic changes he thought to be impending. hallam, like macaulay, ultimately referred all political questions to the standard of whig constitutionalism. but he was scrupulously conscientious in collecting and weighing his materials. in this he was helped by his legal training, and it was this which made the constitutional history one of the standard text-books of english politics.

like the constitutional history, the introduction to the literature of europe continues a branch of inquiry which had been opened in the view of the middle ages. in the first chapter of the literature, which is to a great extent supplementary to the last chapter of the middle ages, hallam sketches the state of literature in europe down to the end of the 14th century: the extinction of ancient learning which followed the fall of the roman empire and the rise of christianity; the preservation of the latin language in the services of the church; and the slow revival of letters, which began to show itself soon after the 7th century--"the nadir of the human mind"--had been passed. for the first century and a half of his special period he is mainly occupied with a review of classical learning, and he adopts the plan of taking short decennial periods and noticing the most remarkable works which they produced.  the rapid growth of literature in the 16th century compels him to resort to a classification of subjects: in the period 1520-1550 we have separate chapters on ancient literature, theology, speculative philosophy and jurisprudence, the literature of taste, and scientific and miscellaneous literature; and the subdivisions of subjects is carried further of course in the later periods. thus poetry, the drama and polite literature form the subjects of separate chapters. one inconvenient result of this arrangement is that the same author is scattered over many chapters, according as his works fall within this category or that period of time. names like shakespeare, grotius, francis bacon and thomas hobbes appear in half a dozen different places. the individuality of great authors is thus dissipated except when it has been preserved by an occasional sacrifice of the arrangement--and this defect, if it is to be esteemed a defect, is increased by the very sparing references to personal history and character with which hallam was obliged to content himself.

his plan excluded biographical history, nor is the work, he tells us, to be regarded as one of reference. it is rigidly an account of the books which would make a complete library of the period, arranged according to the date of their publication and the nature of their subjects. the history of institutions like universities and academies, and that of great popular movements like the reformation, are of course noticed in their immediate connection with literary results; but hallam had little taste for the spacious generalization which such subjects suggest. the great qualities displayed in this work have been universally acknowledged--conscientiousness, accuracy, judgment and enormous reading. not the least styiking testimony to hallam's powers is his mastery over so many diverse forms of intellectual activity. in science and theology, mathematics and poetry, metaphysics and law, he is a competent and always a fair if not a profound critic. the bent of his own mind is manifest in his treatment of pure literature and of political speculation--which seems to be inspired with stronger personal interest and a higher sense of power than other parts of his work display. not less worthy of notice in a literary history is the good sense by which both his learning and his tastes have been held in control. probably no writer ever possessed a juster view of the relative importance of men and things. the labour devoted to an investigation is with hallam no excuse for dwelling on the result, unless that is in itself important. he turns away contemptuously from the mere curiosities of literature, and is never tempted to make a display of trivial erudition. nor do we find that his interest in special studies leads him to assign them a disproportionate place in his general view of the literature of a period.

hallam is generally described as a "philosophical historian." the description is justified not so much by any philosophical quality in his method as by the nature of his subject and his own temper. hallam is a philosopher to this extent that both in political and in literary history he fixed his attention on results rather than on persons. his conception of history embraced the whole movement of society. beside that conception the issue of battles and the fate of kings fall into comparative insignificance. "we can trace the pedigree of princes," he reflects, "fill up the catalogue of towns besieged and provinces desolated, describe even the whole pageantry of coronations and festivals, but we cannot recover the genuine history of mankind." but, on the other hand, there is no trace in hallam of anything like a philosophy of history or society.

wise and generally melancholy reflections on human nature and political society are not infrequent in his writings, and they arise naturally and incidentally out of the subject he is discussing. his object is the attainment of truth in matters of fact. sweeping theories of the movement of society, and broad characterizations of particular periods of history seem to have no attraction for him.  the view of mankind on which such generalizations are usually based, taking little account of individual character, was distasteful to him. thus he objects to the use of statistics because they favour the tendency to regard all men as mentally and morally equal. at the same time hallam by no means assumes the tone of the mere scholar. he is solicitous to show that his point of view is that of the cultivated gentleman and not of the specialist. thus he tells us that montaigne is the first french author whom an english gentleman is ashamed not to have read. in fact, allusions to the necessary studies of a gentleman meet us constantly, reminding us of the unlikely erudition of the schoolboy in macaulay. hallam's prejudices, so far as he had any, belong to the same character. his criticism assumes a tone of moral censure when he has to deal with certain extremes of human thought--scepticism in philosophy, atheism in religion and democracy in politics.

macaulay's essay in review of the constitutional history is available at: http://www.history1700s.com/etexts/html/texts/1cahe10.txt

references.
;






</doc>
<doc id="7986334" title="sungai besi lrt station" nonfiltered="2" processed="2" dbindex="1">
sungai besi lrt station is an lrt station in sungai besi, a town in the federal territory of kuala lumpur, malaysia. this station is served by the sri petaling line and was opened in 1996, along with 17 other lrt stations. its location is .

see also.
 ampang line;
 sri petaling line;
 kelana jaya line;
 kl monorail;
 rawang-seremban line;
 sentul-port klang line;

external links.
 rapid kl official site;
 syarikat prasarana negara bhd;











</doc>
<doc id="5826739" title="1808 in poetry" nonfiltered="3" processed="3" dbindex="2">

events.


poetry published.
 johann wolfgang von goethe, faust, part i;
 sir walter scott, marmion ;
births.
 february 5: carl spitzweg;
 may 22: gerard de nerval ;
 june 17: henrik wergeland ;
deaths.
september 5: john home
melchiore cesarotti 

see also.

poetry;
list of years in poetry;
list of poets;





</doc>
<doc id="2843783" title="3 flies up" nonfiltered="4" processed="4" dbindex="3">
3 flies up is a simple variant of american football that is popular in schoolyards, and typically involves one 'flier' who throws the football to a group of catchers, each individually attempting to best each other and catch 'flies' (passes that have not hit the ground) out of the air for points. 

once a single catcher catches three 'flies' (they do not usually need to be consecutive), he or she becomes the new flier, and a new game is played, in which the prior flier joins the rest of the catchers. this can go on for a long time, making 3 flies up a perpetual game that can be played indefinitely. in some versions, players make it "interesting" by playing until a specific moment or time, in which the current flier at the time is named champion.

variations.
another popular version of the game (different regions and schools play different ways) is called "500", and consists of the same basic principles, but with a different scoring system; the passer randomly calls out a number between 1 and 500 as he or she throws the ball to the cluster of catchers. if successfully received by a catcher, the designated amount of points is awarded, and a winner is declared once a score of '500' is reached. many school teachers prefer this method, because it can require some basic arithmetic skills, which can be practiced through the physical activity.



</doc>
<doc id="9139633" title="sterling college (vermont)" nonfiltered="5" processed="5" dbindex="4">


sterling college is a work college in craftsbury common, vermont known as the smallest accredited four-year college in the country. the school is accredited by the new england association of schools and colleges. sterling is one of only two colleges in the united states to offer a degree in circumpolar studies.

history.
sterling school was founded in 1958 as a boys' college preparatory school by former berkshire school faculty member norman rioux. the school's educational philosophy was influenced by that of outward bound founder kurt hahn. the school transition to higher education during the 1970s began with the academic short course in outdoor leadership, a 21-day program for 13 to 16 year olds. 

faced with closure in 1974, a group of faculty chose to remain and established an academic year-long program similar to outward bound programs known as grassroots project in vermont at sterling institute. by 1983, sterling had developed into an accredited college offering an associate of arts degree in resource management with full accreditation by the new england association of schools and colleges granted in 1987. 

since 1997, sterling college has been accredited as a four-year college and has awarded a bachelor of arts degree with concentrations in wildlands ecology and management, outdoor education and leadership, and sustainable agriculture. the four-year program builds on the grassroots year and second-year internship program from the  two-year program with a junior year in which many students engage in field studies abroad and a comprehensive senior applied research project. sterling college joined the work colleges consortium in 1999 and the center for northern studies, which had been operating in neighboring wolcott since 1971, merged with sterling college in 2003.

campus.
the primary campus is 130 acres (526,091 m\b2). it has 14 buildings including a woodworking shop and a library. outdoor teaching facilities include a managed woodlot, a challenge course, a 30-foot climbing tower, organic gardens, and a working livestock farm with two solar/wind powered barns. much of what is grown and raised is consumed in the dining hall. the center for northern studies at sterling college is comprised of a 300 acre (1,214,057 m\b2) boreal wetland and a building containing a library, classroom space, offices and a lounge.

references.


external links.
sterling college;
work college consortium;
melissa kirkby, student at sterling college five-part commentary series at grist;








</doc>
<doc id="5414345" title="amelia cove, newfoundland and labrador" nonfiltered="6" processed="6" dbindex="5">
amelia cove is a hamlet in the st. barbe district, near griguet.
see also.
list of communities in newfoundland and labrador;






</doc>
<doc id="7218360" title="deus ex sdk" nonfiltered="7" processed="7" dbindex="6">
deus ex sdk is a software development kit (sdk) for the computer game deus ex.  it allows users to make their own missions for the game.  it was released on september 22 2000 as a free download.

 see also .
 deus ex mods;

 external links .
deus ex sdk experiments + toturials






</doc>
<doc id="7214517" title="tefft middle school" nonfiltered="8" processed="8" dbindex="7">

tefft middle school is a middle school that educates 7th and 8th graders located at 1100 shirley avenue in streamwood, illinois. it is a part of school district u46. as of 2006, tefft serves over 800 students. the principal of tefft is lavonne smiley, the vice principal is david harshbarger. the dean's assistant is anthony coleman. tefft also has an on-duty police officer named joe king.

special programs.
tefft middle school has several special programs. tefft has special classes for students who are hard of hearing (hoh). it also is one of a few middle schools in u-46 that houses a swas (school within a school) program. swas is a program for gifted students. the current swas teachers are; reading mr. ziegler, english mrs. smerecky, science mrs. hernandez, social studies mrs. kukla, and math mr. mclear.

history.
tefft middle school is named after the tefft family. the tefft was an important family in elgin history. the family helped to begin major farming and industry in the elgin and hanover township area 1835 through the late 1840's. later in 1852 phineas smith hauled milk via an ox team to elgin which was then sent to chicago on the galena and chicago union railroad. the railroad was built in 1850. tefft began as the school district's first junior high school and later became a middle school. tefft middle school was founded in 1964.

houses of learning.
tefft divides its students up into groups called houses (commonly referred to as "cores" or "teams"). all the students in the same house share the same teachers (the only exceptions are physical education and rotation teachers). these are the different houses:
 athena- includes both 7th and 8th graders;
 atlantis- includes only 7th graders;
 atlas- includes both 7th and 8th grade hard of hearing students;
 gladiators- includes both 7th and 8th grade "swas" students;
 pegasus- includes only 8th grade students;
 titans- includes only 7th grade students;
 zeus- includes only 8th grade students;

extracurricular activities.
like most u46 schools, tefft offers several extracurricular activities.

band, orchestra, and chorus.
students at tefft have the opportunity to play in the school band or orchestra. as of 2006, students also have the option to join an in-school choir. the tefft band is directed by daniel dorotiak, the tefft orchestra by donna garcia, and the tefft choir by david hain. band, orchestra, and chorus members are not able to participate in rotation classes.

rotation classes.
students who do not take band, orchestra, or chorus along with the five "core" classes (social studies/history, english, reading, math and science) take "rotation" classes. these classes last six weeks and include drama, music, art, family and consumer sciences, industrial education, and computers.

sports.
tefft students can participate in sports. in the fall boys can play football and girls can play volleyball. in the early winter and late winter, students can play on the tefft basketball team. the sports teams play the teams of all the other middle schools in the district. tefft and nearby eastview middle school and canton middle school have a small rivalry, due to their close proximity to each other. the boys and girls 7th grade basketball team of 2006 won the district championship, going 13-1 for both genders.

feeder schools.
student attending tefft come from several different feeder schools. students from either heritage, parkwood, glenbrook, horizon, or sunnydale elementary schools attend tefft after completing 6th grade. after completing 8th grade, these students will attend streamwood high school. students who attended horizon elementary school and ontarioville elementary school will attend bartlett high school. some will attend south elgin high school.students who apply for educational academies in 8th grade will attend the high school where the academy is housed.

external links.
tefft's website

see also.
 elgin area school district u46;



</doc>
<doc id="6693237" title="economy of stamford, connecticut" nonfiltered="9" processed="9" dbindex="8">
the economy of stamford, connecticut is unusual for having a cluster of corporate headquarters (many of which moved from new york in the 1980s both to lower their tax bill and to be closer to the homes of their top executives). 

the city has four fortune 500 companies, nine fortune 1000 companies, and thirteen courant 100 companies, as well as numerous divisions of large corporations. this gives stamford one of the largest concentrations of corporations in the nation.

royal bank of scotland announced in october 2005 that it would consolidate its north american headquarters in downtown stamford and build the largest trading floor in north america (the current largest trading floor is in the ubs building across the street from where the new building is under construction).

large and distinctive companies.

citizens communications (czn)-- headquarters, 3 high ridge park; a provider of  telephone, television and internet access to rural areas and small- and medium-sized towns and cities in 23 states; it also runs a local exchange carrier service in the western states through a subsidiary, electric lightwave llc subsidiary; 6,100 employees companywide; 170 in connecticut; $2.2 billion in annual revenues; maggie wilderotter, ceo since november 2004;
crane co. (cr) -- headquarters, 100 first stamford place; a diversified manufacturer of engineered systems ranging from vending machines to anti-skid brakes for aircraft; 10,400 employees, 90 in connecticut; $2 billion in annual revenues; ceo eric c. fast;
conair corporation -- sales headquarters, 1 cummings point road; maker of blowdryers and other personal health care products, such as jheri redding and rusk, and consumer electronic products, including telephones and cuisinart products; the company is officially headquartered in east windsor, new jersey, but it is privately held by leandro p. "lee" rizzuto, who maintains a home in lower fairfield county near the stamford office. rizzuto is the 392nd richest american, with an estimated $925 million in assets, according to the forbes magazine "forbes 400" list. (rizzuto, a cousin of former yankees baseball player phil rizzuto, pleaded guilty to tax evasion in 2002. he was co-founder of the company with his father in 1959.) ;
gartner inc. (it) -- 56 top gallant road; provides research and analysis on the information technology sector; 3,700 employees comanywide; 730 of them in fairfield county; $989 million in annual revenues; ceo gene hall;
general electric capital corp. -- 260 long ridge road;
general re corp. -- division of berkshire hathaway, 695 east main st.;  a holding company for global reinsurance and related operations. it owns general reinsurance corporation and is one of the largest reinsurers worldwide; 895 employees in county, 3,200 companywide; $10.5 billion in revenues in 2003; ceo joseph p. brandon ;
hexcel corp. (hxl) -- headquarters; develops and makes carbon fibers, industrial fabrics and lightweight, high-performance composite materials, and parts and structures used in commercial aerospace, space and defense, recreation and other industries; 4,455 employees, 35 of them in connecticut; $1.2 billion in annual revenues; ceo david berges;
mxenergy (privately held) -- sells electricity and natural gas. the company's fixed-price one- to three-year contracts for homeowners and small businesses were a large part of the reason why the company grew 382.1 percent in revenue in the three years from 2002 to 2005. the company made the inc. magazine "inc. 500" list of fastest growing small companies in 2006, ranking no. 370. in 2005 the company had $326.1 million in annual revenue and 100 employees, according to inc. magazine. ;
odyssey re holdings corp. (orh) -- a global property-casualty reinsurance company, 80-percent-owned by fairfax financial holdings ltd. (nyse: ffh) of toronto; 600 employees, 300 of them in connecticut;  $2.6 billion in annual revenues; ceo andrew a. barnard;
outdoor life network -- (owned by comcast) headquarters, 281 tresser blvd. (nfl studios are there.);
pitney bowes inc. (pbi)-- headquarters, 1 elmcroft road; the world's biggest maker of postal meters and mailing equipment and provides mailing and delivery software and services to companies; 32,700 employees companywide, 3,500 in fairfield county; $5.5 billion in annual revenues; ceo michael j. critelli ;
sac capital advisors llc, a hedge fund run by steven a. cohen;
sempra energy -- trading division;
silgan holdings inc. (slgn) -- headquarters, 4 landmark square; a supplier of consumer goods packaging products with a 50 percent share of the u.s. metal food container market; 7,500 employees, 225 of them in connecticut; annual revenues of $2.5 billion; co-ceos anthony j. "tony" allott and d. greg horrigan;
star gas partners l.p. (sgu) -- headquarters, 2187 atlantic st.; distributor of home heating oil, propane and other fuels in the midwest and eastern u.s.; mostly owned by shareholders; 2,700 employees companywide; revenues of $1.2 billion; ceo irik p. sevin;
statoil asa - north american headquarters, 1055 washington blvd.;  statoil asa is norway's largest oil and gas company.
student loan corp.  (stu) -- headquarters; originates, holds and services student loans; company is mostly owned by citigroup; 550 employees, 30 of them in connecticut; revenues of $1.5 billion; ceo michael j. reardon;
thomson corp. -- operational headquarters; one of the largest companies in canada, thomson retains nominal headquarters there, but the company is run from its operational headquarters in stamford, and if it were officially a u.s.-based company it would be in the fortune 500; $8.7 billion in 2005 revenue;
time warner cable -- headquarters of this division;
ubs (ubs) -- u.s. headquarters, 677 washington blvd.; a financial services company; 4,000 employees in fairfield county; the ubs trading floor in stamford, connecticut holds the guinness world record as the largest securities trading floor in the world. the 103,000 square-foot operation has 40 foot arched ceiling freeing it of columns or walls.  the size of two football fields and home to 1,400 traders and staff who handle about $1 trillion worth of transactions a day.  it is roughly 227 wide by 410 feet long.
vineyard vines (privately held) -- the company designs and sells ties, polo shirts, flip-flops and other products. it has a store on martha's vineyard and (in partnership with others) has opened stores in greenwich, and nantucket. in 2005 the company made the inc. magazine "inc. 500" list of fastest growing companies, placing at no. 202 with revenue growth of 547 over three years (2002 to 2004). in 2006, the company again made the list, this time at no. 217 with 569.4 percent growth in revenues over three years (from 2003 to 2005). its 2005 revenues came to 23.8 million (up from 13.2 the year before) and 85 employees (up from 45 the year before), according to inc. the company was founded in 1998.
world wrestling entertainment -- 1241 e. main st.; headquarters of the company said to be the largest sports entertainment company in the world.
xerox corp. -- headquarters, 800 long ridge road; a fortune 500 company that makes and sells color and black-and-white printers, multifunction systems, photo copiers, digital production printing presses, and related consulting services and supplies;

footnotes.


external links.
stamford chamber of commerce;
stamford downtown special services district;
stamford town center;
"made in stamford: a history of stamford as a manufacturing center";
city of stamford;




</doc>
<doc id="2371881" title="oingo boingo (ep)" nonfiltered="10" processed="10" dbindex="9">


oingo boingo is the first official release from the band oingo boingo. this was also the first release of the song "only a lad."  in a cost saving move, the label chose to release the band's demo recordings rather than paying for a studio session.  the song selection includes three original compositions by danny elfman as well as a ska inflected cover of bluesman willie dixon's "violent love."  the song "only a lad" was subsequently re-recorded and issued as the title track on their first long playing album.

the cover includes an illustration of a cat by artist louis wain from the later stages of his schizophrenia.

track listing.
"only a lad"   4:08;
"violent love"   2:31;
"ain't this the life"   3:21;
"i'm so bad"   3:49;








</doc>
<doc id="3066522" title="shambhala mountain center" nonfiltered="11" processed="11" dbindex="10">

the shambhala mountain center was founded by vidyadhara ch\f6gyam trungpa rinpoche in 1970 at red feather lakes, colorado. trungpa arrived in 1971 with a number of students from tail of the tiger in barnet, vt, now known as karm\ea ch\f6ling.

the property is nestled on 600 acres (2.4 km\b2) of grassy fields, forest, ponds, and streams. the center boasts 35,000 square feet of building space for meditation, dharma talks, programs, and living quarters.

the center hosts regular shambhala training programs as well as yoga instruction, leadership training, children's programs, and retreats, which last from a week to several months.


following the death of trungpa in 1987, his followers began a fourteen-year process of building a stupa at the shambhala mountain center. completed in august of 2001, the great stupa of dharmakaya which liberates upon seeing reaches 108 feet (33 m) and is open to visitors daily.

shambhala mountain center is affiliated with shambhala international.

shambhala mountain center was previously known as rocky mountain dharma center (rmdc) and rocky mountain shambhala center.

external links.
shambhala moutain center;



</doc>
<doc id="5121228" title="geraldton gold cup" nonfiltered="12" processed="12" dbindex="11">
the geraldton cup, a thoroughbred horse race, was first run on dec 8, 1887 with a winners purse of \a3300. the race, staged over 3200m by the victoria turf club was won by baron necktar a full brother to dunlop, the melbourne cup winner of the same year. in 1887, the perth cup had a winners purse of \a3250 and placed geraldton racing ahead of what was to become one of western australia's most popular races.

the gerarldton gold cup is hosted by the geraldton turf club.


 past winners .


 2006 tapdog ;
2005 elvis rules;
2004 colorado river ;
2003 robe river man ;
2002 tapdog ;
2001 sir donald;
2000 interest free;
1999 mount henry;
1998 boston blue;
1997 clan west;
1996 the walrus;
1995 pago music;
1994 the walrus;
1993 pago magic;
1992 top voltage;
1991 mr. geraldton;
1990 great fellow;
1989 brazen face;
1987 stylish lord ;
1986 calingiri city;
1985 mick's lad;
1984 star warning;
1983 stock market;
1982 outcome;
1981 russian robert;
1980 kens marty;
1979 jimadaw;
1978 under control;
1977 racaralma;



</doc>
<doc id="6584222" title="centennial scarborough" nonfiltered="13" processed="13" dbindex="12">
centennial scarborough is a neighbourhood located in toronto, more specifically in scarborough.  the neighbourhood is bounded by kingston rd to the north, port union rd to the east, scarborough shoreline (lake ontario) to the south and highland creek to the west. 

the largest segment of this neighbourhood is much more commonly known as port union, which was the name of the waterfront village that stood here in the 1800s.  when railroads came in port union did not fare well, however, in recent years a sub division has been built along the waterfront which joins the traditional neighbourhood to the new frontier.  

the neighbourhood has many mature trees, parkland and waterfront.  it is not among the most affluent neighbourhoods in the city but it is an upper middle class neighbourhood with 93% ownership.  for those who want to feel like they are in the country while in the city, this neighbourhood fits the bill. 


see also.
list of neighbourhoods in toronto;

 external links .

http://www.toronto.ca/demographics/profiles_map_and_index.htm;





</doc>
<doc id="3272557" title="f\e9lix lajk\f3" nonfiltered="14" processed="14" dbindex="13">
f\e9lix lajk\f3 (serbian:             ) (born december 17, 1974 in ba ka topola, vojvodina, yugoslavia) is an ethnic hungarian "world music" violinist and composer from vojvodina. 

lajk\f3's music is difficult to categorize; it is based on wide spectrum of influences of traditional string music from pannonian plain. it can be viewed as a specific form of jazz, but based on traditional music of hungary and vojvodina.

he is a virtuoso violinist, playing with great fervor and passion, and occasionally he plays other traditional instruments, such as cimbalom. on concerts, he usually performs with his small band, but sometimes also plays solo violin.

discography.
lajk\f3 f\e9lix 7 (2005);
f\e9lix (2002);
f\e9lix lajk\f3 and his band (2001);
boban markovics orkestar feat. f\e9lix lajk\f3 (2000);
f\e9lix lajk\f3 and his band: concert  98 (1998);
f\e9lix lajk\f3   attila l\f5rinszky: live at the academy (1997);
f\e9lix lajk\f3 and his band (1997);
noir desir: 666.667 club cd (guest musician) (1996);
samaba tri\f3: opus magnum cd (guest musician) (1996);
f\e9lix lajk\f3 and his band (1995);
mih\e1ly dresch dud\e1s: zeng a l\e9lek (1993);

external links.
official site;














</doc>
<doc id="419644" title="alternative education" nonfiltered="15" processed="15" dbindex="14">


alternative education, also known as non-traditional education or educational alternative, is a broad term which may be used to refer to all forms of education outside of traditional education (for all age groups and levels of education). this may include both forms of education designed for students with special needs (ranging from teenage pregnancy to intellectual disability) and forms of education designed for a general audience which employ alternative educational philosophies and/or methods. 

alternatives of the latter type are often the result of education reform and are rooted in various philosophies that are commonly fundamentally different from those of traditional compulsory education. while some have strong political, scholarly, or philosophical orientations, others are more informal associations of teachers and students dissatisfied with certain aspects of traditional education. these alternatives, which include charter schools, alternative schools, independent schools, and home-based learning vary widely, but often emphasize the value of small class size, close relationships between students and teachers, and a sense of community.

in certain places, especially in the united states, the term alternative may largely refer to forms of education catering to "at risk" students or students with other kinds of special needs, as it is, for example, in this definition drafted by the massachusetts department of education.  other words used in place of alternative by many educational professionals include non-traditional, non-conventional, or non-standardized, although these terms are used somewhat less frequently and may have negative connotations and multiple meanings. those involved in forms of education which differ in their educational philosophy (as opposed to their intended pupil base) often use words such as authentic, holistic, and progressive as well. however, these words each have different meanings which are more specific or more ambiguous than simply alternative.

 overview .

while pedagogical controversy is very old, "alternative education" presupposes some kind of orthodoxy which the alternative is in opposition to.  in general, this limits the term to the last two or perhaps three centuries, with the rise of standarized and, later, compulsory education at the primary and secondary levels.  many critics in this period have suggested that the education of young people should be undertaken in radically different ways than ones in practice.  in the 19th century, the swiss humanitarian johann heinrich pestalozzi, the american transcendentalists amos bronson alcott, ralph waldo emerson, and henry david thoreau, the founders of progressive education john dewey and francis parker, and educational pioneers such as maria montessori and rudolf steiner (founder of the waldorf schools), among others, all insisted that education should be understood as the art of cultivating the moral, emotional, physical, psychological, and spiritual aspects of the developing child.  anarchists such as leo tolstoy and fransisco ferrer y guardia emphasized education as a force for political liberation, secularism, and elimination of class distinctions. 

more recently, social critics such as john caldwell holt, paul goodman, frederick mayer and ivan illich have examined education from more individualist, anarchist, and libertarian perspectives, that is, critiques of the ways that they feel conventional education subverts democracy by molding young people's understandings. other writers, from the revolutionary paulo freire to american educators like herbert kohl and jonathan kozol, have criticized mainstream western education from the viewpoint of their varied left-liberal and radical politics.

 modern forms .

a wide variety of educational alternatives exist at the elementary, secondary, and tertiary levels of education. these generally fall into four major categories: school choice, alternative school, independent school, and home-based education. these general categories can be further broken down into more specific practices and methodologies. 

 school choice .

the public school options include entirely separate schools in their own settings as well as classes, programs, and even semi-autonomous "schools within schools." public school choice options are open to all students in their communities, though some have waiting lists. among these are charter schools, combining private initiatives and state funding; and magnet schools, which attract students to particular themes, such as performing arts.

 alternative school .

in education, the phrase alternative school, sometimes referred to as a minischool, or remedial school, is any public or private school having a special curriculum, especially an elementary or secondary school offering a more flexible program of study than a traditional school.  a wide range of philosophies and teaching methods are offered by alternative schools; some have strong political, scholarly, or philosophical orientations, while others are more ad-hoc assemblies of teachers and students dissatisfied with some aspect of traditional education.  today, alternative schools cater to students who have special educational needs as well as those who would like to experience school differently.  there are similar programs that exist in higher education settings that serve adults returning to school.

 independent school .

independent, or private, schools have more flexibility in staff selection and educational approach. the most plentiful of these are montessori schools, waldorf schools (the latter are also called steiner schools after their founder), and friends schools. other independent schools include democratic, or free schools such as sands school, summerhill school and sudbury valley school, krishnamurti schools, open classroom schools, those based on experiential education, as well as schools which teach using international curriculum such as the international baccalaureate and round square schools. an increasing number of traditionally independent school forms now also exist within state-run, public education; this is especially true of the waldorf and montessori schools. the majority of independent schools offer at least partial scholarships.


 home-based education .

families who seek alternatives based on educational, philosophical, or religious reasons, or if there appears to be no nearby educational alternative can decide to have home-based education. some call themselves unschoolers, for they follow an approach based on interest, rather than a set curriculum. others enroll in umbrella schools which provide a curriculum to follow. many choose this alternative for religious-based reasons, but practitioners of home-based education are of all backgrounds and philosophies.

 correctional education .


 other .

there are also some interesting grey areas. for instance, home-educators have combined to create resource centers where they meet as often as five or more days a week, but their members all consider themselves home-educated. in some states publicly run school districts have set up programs for homeschoolers whereby they are considered enrolled, and have access to school resources and facilities. 

also, many traditional schools have incorporated methods originally found only in alternative education into their general approach, so the line between alternative and mainstream education is continually becoming more blurred.

 internationally .

 canada .

in canada, some privately run schools receive government school funding. 

the toronto district school board has adopted alternative programs into their school system. sometimes these take the form of entire schools, like mountview alternative school which shares space with the much larger keele elementary school in toronto's high park-junction, and sometime they are programs within schools, like the triangle program, canada's only high school program designed especially for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender students.

then there are also schools like divine class, a holistic non-school that guides and certifies average people (aged 18+) how to read people, situations, and events through alternative methods such as tarot, psychic ability, and esoteric systems.

in quebec the universal school of life has been around for more than 23 years and is focused on indigo children and families and has created a way of life for indigo families. see: http://universalschooloflife.com

 england .

sands school is an alternative school in the uk.  it has only 65 students, with a high ratio of teachers.  the students learn at their own pace in a supportive environment.  the school is run democratically, with the students having as much say in how the school is run as the staff.  decisions are made by voting in a weekly school meeting, where matters ranging from what colour the new carpets should be, to the employment of new staff.  the school offers a full range of subjects, and attendance to lessons is negotiated, not compulsory.  the school also educates students on a larger range than most schools, and gives students choice in what they can learn.  their interests form a large part of what is offered in the curriculum.

 australia .

preshil, in kew, australia, was established in the 1930s. it is one of the few alternative schools in australia that is unaffiliated with any doctrinal or theological movement. its primary school has run since established by margaret lyttle in 1931, and the secondary school since the late 1970's. see also village school, vic; currambena primary, nsw; melbourne community school, vic; collingwood college, vic; fitzroy community school, vic; lynall hall, vic; berengarra, vic candlebark school, vic and brisbane independent school, qld.

 united states .
terra bella academy, in mountain view, ca is a publicly funded alternative public school for 8th through 12th grades with about a 1/12 student teacher ratio. the academic curriculum is affiliated with the university of santa clara (santa clara, ca, usa) and includes social interactive and team building activities. see also http://aecnews.org/newsletter_11_2006/feature.php?#terrabella

 india .
in india, beginning in the early part of the 20th century, many educational theorists have discussed and implimented radically different forms of education. rabindranath tagore's shantiniketan and mahatma gandhi's ideal of "basic education" are primary examples. in recent years many new alternative schools have formed, like sarang palakad kerala, adharshila saakad mp, sita school - bangalore, kanavu, and timbaktoo collective andhra pradesh. at higher levels of education one finds educational alternatives like multiversity.com  that hold open knowledge as an ideal. in the last few decades holistic education, in which the environment of the student is considered an essential part of the educational process, has become popular.




 see also .

 unschooling;
 free school;
 autodidacticism;
 school;
 education;
 alternative school;
 gifted education;
 special education;

 further reading .

;
;

 resources .

 alternative education resource organization they publish the journal education revolution and have a yearly conference.
 choice alternative school, shelton, wa, usa;

 external links .
 eklavya foundation madhya pradesh india's premier organisation that has developed alternative material ;
 aravind gupta toys allowing free use of books and toys a site that provides the best collection of readings on alternative education around the world.
 iowa association of alternative education;
 international association for learning alternatives;
 blueprint education, phoenix, arizona;
 sands school, devon, uk;
 informal education;
 special education in alternative education programs - eric digest e585;
 international association for learning alternatives;
 altlearn - a worldwide network of natural learners, unschoolers, and support groups, linked together by map;
 a vermont high school based on alternative education methods - otter valley experiential high school -experience the alternative...experience your life.
 goddard college a progressive, low residency college based upon the ideals and theories of john dewey - founded in 1938;
   shimer college--a unique great books school in chicago, il;






</doc>
<doc id="3519472" title="theodore o'hara" nonfiltered="16" processed="16" dbindex="15">

theodore o'hara (february 11, 1820 - june 6, 1867) was a poet and confederate colonel, best known for the poems "the bivouac of the dead" and "the old pioneer".

the early years: professor, lawyer, colonel.

o'hara was born to mr. and mrs. kane o'hara in danville, kentucky before the family moved to frankfort. he continued his education at st. joseph academy in bardstown, kentucky, where he also served as a greek professor during his senior year. he later studied law with student john c. breckinridge before being appointed for a position in the united states treasury department in 1845. as the mexican-american war was just beginning, o'hara signed up for the u.s. army and held the positions of captain and quartermaster of volunteers as of june 26, 1846. for excellent conduct in the battle of contreras and churubusco, o'hara was honored with the rank of brevet-major on august 20, 1847. o'hara wrote his first poem, "the bivouac of the dead" in honor of the second kentucky regiment officers who died in the battle of buena vista in february 1847. long before the officers were buried at the state cemetery in frankfort on june 20, 1847, there was a dedication ceremony for a monument in honor of these men. lines from the poem would eventually grace the gates of numerous national cemeteries. after the war ended in 1848, o'hara returned to washington, d.c. to continue his law practices until 1851.

the later years: editor, diplomat, confederate.

o'hara joined others from kentucky in an expedition to cuba in 1850. he commanded a regiment in the battle of c\e1rdenas before a severe injury. he was appointed captain of the second calvary on march 3, 1855 before resigning on december 1, 1856. when john forsyth jr., editor-in-chief of the mobile register became minister to mexico in 1856, o'hara took his place in the newspaper. he also edited for the louisville times and the yeoman. he continued to follow government orders, such as his diplomatic mission into the tehuantepec grant debate. at the beginning of the war between the states, o'hara joined the confederate army and became colonel of the twelfth alabama regiment. he later served with general albert sidney johnston and general john c. breckinridge, his fellow law student. after the war ended, o'hara went to columbus, georgia to be in the cotton business, but eventually lost his business to a fire. he later resided on a plantation near guerrytown, alabama where he died and was returned to columbus for burial. on september 15, 1874, his remains, along with those of other mexican war officers were buried in the state cemetery in frankfort, kentucky. o'hara's friend sergeant henry t. stanton read "the bivouac of the dead" at the reinterment and said, "o hara, in giving utterance to this song, became at once the builder of his own monument and the author of his own epitaph."

external links.
the bivouac of the dead;





</doc>
<doc id="185138" title="shabeellaha dhexe" nonfiltered="17" processed="17" dbindex="16">

middle shabele (somali: shabeellaha dhexe;  ) is an administrative region (gobolka) in southern somalia. as part of the former benadir region, its capital was mogadishu until the mid 1980s, when the town of jowhar became the capital. it is bordered by the somalian regions of galguduud, hiiraan, lower shabele, and banaadir and the indian ocean.

it is named after the river shabeelle that passes this region.

 districts .

aadan yabaal;
balcad;
cadale;
jowhar (capital);
mahadaay weyn;
warsheekh;












</doc>
<doc id="73427" title="detour (1945 film)" nonfiltered="18" processed="18" dbindex="17">

detour is a 1945 film noir cult classic that stars tom neal, ann savage, claudia drake and edmund macdonald. a b-movie, it was shot in six days.  the film, budgeted for $89,000, ended up costing $117,000 to make.  to preserve the film's right-to-left orientation used in the cross-country scenes, the director reversed many of the hitchhiking shots so that the cars appear to be on the wrong side of the road.

the movie was adapted by martin goldsmith and martin mooney (uncredited) from martin goldsmith's novel, and was directed by edgar g. ulmer.  the 68-minute film was created and released by the producers releasing corporation (prc).  because the 1945 production code mandated that "murderers... must be brought to justice" in all films made, director ulmer satisfied censors by ending the movie with al the hitchhiker being picked up after predicting his arrest earlier.

 plot .

a piano player, al (neal), sets off hitchhiking his way to california to be with his girl. along the way, a stranger in a convertible gives him a ride. while driving, al stops to put the top up during a rainstorm.  he discovers that the owner of the car has died in his sleep.  al panics and dumps the body in a gully and drives off in his car. later, he picks up another hitchhiker.  vera, (savage) a femme fatale, threatens to turn him in for the supposed murder unless he assumes the identity of the dead man to collect an inheritance.


the film has been selected for preservation in the united states national film registry.  critical response to the film today is almost universally positive. time lists the film in the magazine's all time 100 films, and film critic roger ebert wrote of the film:
"this movie from hollywood's poverty row, shot in six days, filled with technical errors and ham-handed narrative, starring a man who can only pout and a woman who can only sneer, should have faded from sight soon after it was released in 1945. and yet it lives on, haunting and creepy, an embodiment of the guilty soul of film noir. no one who has seen it has easily forgotten it."

 quote .
i know.  someday a car will stop to pick me up that i never thumbed.  yes, fate, or some mysterious force can put the finger on you or me for no good reason at all.

 cast .

tom neal as al roberts;
ann savage as vera;
claudia drake as sue harvey;
edmund macdonald as charles haskell jr;
tim ryan as nevada diner proprietor;
esther howard as holly, diner waitress;
pat gleason as joe, trucker at diner;

 see also .
 lost highway;

external links .
 ;
;
;
time magazine all time 100 movies;








</doc>
<doc id="2375428" title="mabasa, dupax del norte, nueva vizcaya" nonfiltered="19" processed="19" dbindex="18">

mabasa is a barangay of dupax del norte in the province of nueva vizcaya, philippines. it was one of the oldest barrio of dupax (when the town was not yet divided into two, dupax del norte and dupax del sur). mabasa was originally called san roque, named by the parish priest of dupax after the saint of hunters because the place then was a thick forest where game was abundant such as deers and wild pigs.

history.
the first settlers of san roque were ilokano migrants from the town of paoay in ilocos norte and from alcala and san nicolas towns in pangasinan. they travelled by foot and by horses and carabaos through san nicolas, pangasinan, passing through imugan, santa fe, nueva vizcaya because that was the shortest way possible during those times. the migrants settled at sitio poonan (later called puongan). the family of apolonio vadil was the first settler in poungan. old records from the roman catholic church in dupax del sur showed that the daughter of apolonio vadil, tomasa, was baptized on october 10, 1887.

more migrants came and settled along the apean (apayan) river from puongan upstream and occupied the western part of the barrio now called riverside east and riverside west. the settlers found the place always flowing with abundant water coming from a spring in the eastern part of the barrio, and so they called the place "nabasa" which means "wet" in iloko language. it was later officially called "mabasa" changing the old name "san roque."








</doc>
<doc id="7391102" title="port fountain" nonfiltered="20" processed="20" dbindex="19">


karachi's port fountain rises to a height of 620 feet when operating at full force. it is located next to the oyster rocks, off the karachi habour.

</doc>
<doc id="3921780" title="phyllody" nonfiltered="21" processed="21" dbindex="20">

phyllody is the development of floral parts into leafy structures, generally caused by virus or phytoplasma infection such as aster yellows. 








</doc>
<doc id="9377383" title="catamount ski area" nonfiltered="22" processed="22" dbindex="21">




catamount ski area is a  ski resort located in the berkshire mountains in hillsdale, new york and south egremont, massachusetts. it is one of the few remaining family-owned ski areas. while in comparison to "big" mountains in the northeast, it is small, but it provides some of the best skiing close to new york city (a mere two hours away). while many families tend to prefer nearby butternut, catamount has a more diverse and challenging range of trails, including catapult, one of the steepest trails in the northeast. in addition, because butternut now has multiple high-speed quad chairlifts, it is often too crowded. catamount lifts have short lines and the trails have less people, which means more skiing. 

history.

catamount first open for business in 1939 with three rope tows. but the mountain remained relatively unpopular for a good amount of time. in the 1950s, jiminy peak and butternut ski areas opened, the other two mountains in the berkshires and skiing in the area began to become more popular.   

bill gilbert and don edwards took over management and bought catamount in 1974 and made it what it is today. both men had a lot of experience manging mountains. since they have taken over, a lot of new terrain has been added, including catapult, sidewinder, and promenade, and new chairlifts. when they bought the mountain, less than 25% of the mountain was covered by snowmaking and now more than 98% is covered.

mountain statistics.
elevation.

vertical drop: 1000 ft;

trails.
skiable area: 119 acres;
32;
10 novice - 40%;
10 intermediate - 27%;
12 advanced and expert - 33%;
longest trail - 2.5 miles ridge run to upper and lower promenade;

98% of the acrerage of the trails are covered by snowmaking.

trail map





(m) - trail with moguls most of the time when conditions provide;
(t) - terrain park with various jumps and features including rails and halfpipes;
(n) - no snomaking;

lifts.

6 total;
1 quad chairs;
1 triple chairs;
2 double chairs;
2 surface lifts;



lodges.
main base lodge: located at the base.
taconic lodge: temporary lodge located at the bottom of the mountain near the ridge quad. it will be moved when the incoming condos are built.

gift shops.
cat's paw retail shop - discount for season pass holders. has some catamount logo stuff and basic ski clothing. nothing too special.

plans for the future.

catamount has begun its renovation project to compete with neighboring butternut. in summer 2006, the summit quad chairlift was completed. in coming years, an 126 condo complex will be built around a lake at the base with ski in/out access. the new condos will also include a retail shopping, dining, a spa, and parking. it will operate year round. the renovations are seomwhat similar to jiminy peak's recent upgrades.

skiing the mountain.

a few years ago, many would choose butternut over catamount because of its draw for families. butternut has a lot of easier trails. but catamount has recently dedicated an entire area to beginners called the meadows and it is serviced by its own triple chair lift. the triple offers to places to get off. one is halfway up the mountain where you can take ali's alley or kelli's run to various other greens. 

the mountain offers an incredible variety of terrain for a small mountain. it has difficult trails such as catapult, one of the steepest trails in the northeast. it has black diamond cruisers such as alley cat and a favorite intermediate cruiser in sidewinder. if one should desire a nice, long trail, one could take ridge run to promenade for a 2.5 mile easy run.

the views while skiing are incredible. some of the notable views include when you ski on the new york side from the summit right before you get on glade. when you reach the bottom of lower glade or upper alleycat, there is a fabulous view of the rest of the mountain. likewise, when coming down mountain view on the massachusetts side, you can see the rest of the mountain.

overall, the mountain is great for what it is. it is small but will keep you busy all day. it is uncrowded and family friendly.

tips for a great day
stay away from the catamount double chairlift. it is always crowded and does not take you high enough to make it worth the wait. just go to the top.
ski during lunch time. everyone goes inside the lodges then and the lines are very short.
if you can't ski all day. get there early so you can get the good snow and short lines. if not, you gotta wait til the end of the day for short lines and by then, the snow is no good.




trail reviews.

easiest (green circle)
ali's alley - has no snowmaking and therefore is rarely open. nice easy green.
kelli's run - perfect green run for beginners. not steep but steep enough to get going if you want.
cat's meow - flat trail that takes you from the middle of the mounatin over to the meadows. at times you must "skate" so you can move because the trail is so flat.
colonel's caper - a surprisingly fun green that can take you from one side of the triple chair to the other. ;
esplanade - a great, wide green trail. excellent for all abilities and easy to learn techniques, etc. makes walter's way worth taking.
holiday - great, wide, expansive green trail. steep at the end.
upper and lower promenade - great, flat trail, with some surprisingly decent pitches at times. fun trail for beginners, giving them a long option from to top of the meadows. beautiful views at the beginning.

more difficult (blue square)
catamount - great wide trail with decent pitch. an excellent way to finish chute and glade although not entiely worth it if you only take the catamount doublt to the middle.
chute - great way to zip down from alley cat to the middle of the mountain. steep pitch. you can really get some speed and finish off with an array of blue and black trails at the bottom, including catamount.
ridge run - beginning of the longest run on the mountain. it starts off slow and flat but you soon encounter a number of good pitches. the run always has a good amount of snow on it. gives you options when you get to the meadows.
mountain view - one of two blue options when you finish ridge run. has fabulous views of the mountain and is a wide trail with decent pitch. great snow grooming and one of the most underrated trails on the mountain. you meet holiday at the bottom.
walter's way - the other of the two blue options in the meadows. it's okay and has a decent pitch but is often very icy. what makes the trail worth it is after when you get to esplanade, which is arguably better than holiday.
race slope - small trail from middle of the mountain. it's okay. usually closed for race training.
upper and lower sidewinder - since it's addition it has been one of the most popular trails on the mountain. it is a great long cruiser with steep pitches and not as steep pitches, making it truly enjoyable. it is filled with twists and turns including great views as you pass through the trees and weave through the mountain. one downside is , because of it's popularity, by the end of the day it is icy, especially upper sidewinder.

most difficult (black diamond)
upper and lower glade - a great, wide black trail with nice pitch, especially right before you get to the middle of the mountain. can be icy at times.
upper and lower alley cat - simply the best trail on the mountain for good skiers. it has fabulous twists and turns, great snowmaking, and rarely has people on it. great, steep pitches allowing for great speed.
 
expert (double black diamond)
catapult - one of the steepest trails in the northeast. enough said. very difficult, especially with moguls.

costs.

season passes

a season pass purchase at catamount is one of the best values in skiing. if you buy in the spring or summer before the season, you can get a great deal of $200 for adults, $150 for juniors and seniors, $100 for kids. also, if you buy in march, you can ski free that march. if you buy at the right time, it pays in four visits. not to mention the discount at the cat's paw retail shop and discounts at other mountains.

lift tickets



night skiing


twighlight


nearby mountains.
ski butternut (great barrington, ma);
thunder ridge (patterson, ny);
bellayre mountain (highmount, ny);
hunter mountain (hunter, ny);
windham mountain (windham, ny);

related links.

catamount ski area

on the snow - catamount ski area reviews

catamount at about.com

catamount at snowcountry.com

 references .


</doc>
<doc id="2523900" title="german scholars boston" nonfiltered="23" processed="23" dbindex="22">
german scholars boston, also known as german scholars agency, and abbreviated as gsa or gsb, is an independent organization for and of 3500+ german speaking scholars, alumni and professionals living and working in cambridge or the greater boston area interested in germanic culture. it comprises scientists, scholars, students, fellows, postdocs and alumni from all major universities in the area, including but not limited to harvard university, massachusetts institute of technology, boston university and tufts university, as well as professionals from different companies, and people from government- and non-governmental organizations. with more than 3100+ alumni, gsb's worldwide membership is at 6600+ now.

gsb provides a forum for its members to meet, discuss, exchange ideas and vital information. as such, gsb invites to specific cultural and social events to get together on a regular basis.

external links.
german scholars boston website;





</doc>
<doc id="6913992" title="panagiotis vasilopoulos" nonfiltered="24" processed="24" dbindex="23">
panagiotis vasilopoulos (born 1985, athens) is a greek professional basketball player.  he was a member of the greece national basketball team that finished second in the 2006 fiba world championship.  he is a small forward but he can also play as a center or power forward. he is curently plays for olympiacos bc and he has a two-year contract.










</doc>
<doc id="2488604" title="daisenin" nonfiltered="25" processed="25" dbindex="24">
 
daisenin is a zen-inspired garden in kyoto, japan. it was built between 1509 and 1513.











</doc>
<doc id="133654" title="foster township, schuylkill county, pennsylvania" nonfiltered="26" processed="26" dbindex="25">
foster township is a township in schuylkill county, pennsylvania, united states. the population was 1,124 at the 2000 census.

geography.
according to the united states census bureau, the township has a total area of 34.2 km\b2 (13.2 mi\b2).  34.1 km\b2 (13.1 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.1 km\b2 (0.04 mi\b2) of it (0.30%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census2 of 2000, there were 1,124 people, 105 households, and 72 families residing in the township.  the population density was 33.0/km\b2 (85.5/mi\b2).  there were 115 housing units at an average density of 3.4/km\b2 (8.7/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the township was 53.20% white, 43.24% african american, 0.27% native american, 1.96% asian, 0.62% from other races, and 0.71% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 17.70% of the population.

there were 105 households out of which 28.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 54.3% were married couples living together, 7.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 30.5% were non-families. 28.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 13.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.55 and the average family size was 3.08.

in the township the population was spread out with 5.6% under the age of 18, 8.3% from 18 to 24, 61.0% from 25 to 44, 18.6% from 45 to 64, and 6.5% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 36 years. for every 100 females there were 778.1 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 971.7 males.

the median income for a household in the township was $31,042, and the median income for a family was $29,688. males had a median income of $15,180 versus $21,607 for females. the per capita income for the township was $11,538.  about 16.0% of families and 15.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 24.1% of those under age 18 and 6.3% of those age 65 or over.






</doc>
<doc id="6832988" title="wiener-ikehara theorem" nonfiltered="27" processed="27" dbindex="26">
the wiener-ikehara theorem can be used to prove the prime number theorem (see chandrasekharan's book introduction to analytic number theory).  it was proved by norbert wiener and his student shikao ikehara in 1932.  it is an example of a tauberian theorem.

 statement  .
let a(x) be a non-negative, monotonic decreasing function of x, defined for . suppose that

;

converges for re(s)>1 to the function f(s) and that f(s) is analytic for , except for a simple pole at s=1 with residue 1: that is,  is continuous in . then the limit as x goes to infinity of e(-x)a(x) is equal to 1.

 application .

an important number-theoretic application of the theorem is to dirichlet series of the form 

 ;

where a(n) is non-negative.  if the series converges to an analytic function in 

 ;

with a simple pole of residue c at s=b, then 

.

applying this to the logarithmic derivative of the riemann zeta function, where the coefficients in the dirichlet series are values of the von mangoldt function, it is possible to deduce the prime number theorem from the fact that the zeta function has no zeroes on the line 

;





</doc>
<doc id="6140010" title="bukit timah road" nonfiltered="28" processed="28" dbindex="27">

bukit timah road (chinese:      ; malay: jalan bukit timah) is a major road in singapore extending from the city centre to woodlands road on the way to johor bahru in malaysia. the road has a distance of 25km, which is one of the longest roads in singapore, and the road takes its name from the hill. en route, it passes through the areas of little india, newton road, farrer road, singapore botanic gardens and bukit timah. 

bukit timah road splits into two roads at newton circus, the west-bound bukit timah road and east-bound dunearn road, both of which straddle a canal along their entire lengths. bukit timah road begins at the junction with rochor canal road, serangoon road and selegie road just south of tekka centre as bukit timah road, follows a canal in a northwest direction up to its junction with clementi road where it continues northwards as upper bukit timah road (       ) until the junction with bukit panjang road and choa chu kang road near the ten mile junction shopping mall as woodlands road. the road passes through the bukit timah planning area. buildings named after the road are bukit timah plaza and bukit timah shopping centre. 

history.
the road was built in 1845 and the area was infested with tigers that it was a serious threat to humans. the first horseback ride in the island was along bukit timah in 1840, which took four days and was made by mr thomson and dr. little. in 1860, about 200 were killed by the tigers in and about the gambier and pepper plantations. the road was also the last defensive stand against the japanese army in 1942. the british surrendered to the japanese at the old ford motor factory at upper bukit timah road. a canal was built in later years between dunearn road and bukit timah road to solve the flooding problem in the area. in the 1990s, a tunnel and a flyover was constructed namely the bukit timah underpass and the wayang satu flyover. the newton flyover exists since the 1970s which goes over the junction of newton circus.

etymology.

bukit timah road is known as tek kha kang a ki in hokkien, which means "the side of the stream in tek kha (selegie road) district". this only refers to the eastern end of the road. the wayang satu (whitley) and bukit timah village were differently called. they also referred the road as bee chia lo bue, meaning the "end of the horse carriage road". 

landmarks.
along the road, major landmarks include tekka centre, little india mrt station, kandang kerbau women's and children's hospital, kampong java park, newton food centre, newton mrt station, balmoral plaza, singapore botanic gardens, serene centre, coronation plaza, hwa chong institution, methodist girls' school and king albert park. at upper bukit timah road, landmarks include bukit timah plaza, bukit timah market and food centre, beauty world, cheong chin nam road, hoover park, rail mall and the old ford motor factory.

references.
victor r savage, brenda s a yeoh (2004), toponymics a study of singapore street names, eastern university press, isbn 981-210-364-3;









</doc>
<doc id="7449438" title="micro loop heat pipe" nonfiltered="29" processed="29" dbindex="28">
a micro loop heat pipe or mlhp is a miniature loop heat pipe in which the radius of curvature of the liquid meniscus in the evaporator is in the same order of magnitude of the micro grooves' dimensions; or a miniature loop heat pipe which has been fabricated using microfabrication techniques.



</doc>
<doc id="1081474" title="compute!" nonfiltered="30" processed="30" dbindex="29">
compute! () was a computer magazine that was published from 1979 to 1994. in its 1980s heyday it covered all major platforms, and several single-platform spinoffs of the magazine were launched. one of these was compute!'s gazette, catering to commodore computer users.

its original goal was to write about and publish programs for all of the computers that used some version of the mos technology 6502 cpu. it started out with the commodore pet, commodore vic-20, the atari 8-bit series, the apple ii plus, and some 6502-based computers one could build from kits, such as the rockwell aim 65, the kim-1 by mos technology, and others from companies such as ohio scientific. support for the kit computers and the commodore pet were eventually dropped. the platforms that became mainstays at the magazine were the commodore vic-20, commodore 64, atari 8-bit series, ti-99/4a, and the apple ii series. later on the ibm pc, atari st series, and the commodore amiga series computers were added to its line-up.

in addition, compute! published a large number of computer books.

most personal computers of the time came with some version of the basic programming language. the magazine often featured type-in programs written in these versions of basic for their respective computers. machine code programs were also published, usually for simple video games listed as hexadecimal numbers that could be poked into the memory of a home computer such as a vic-20 or atari 400. machine language listings could also be entered in decimal with a program provided in each issue called mlx (available for apple ii and commodore hardware, and written in basic). it was noted particularly for software such as the multiplatform word processor speedscript, and the spreadsheet speedcalc.

editors of the magazine included founder robert lock, richard mansfield, charles brannon, and tom r. halfhill. noted columnists included jim butterfield, educator fred d'ignazio and science fiction author orson scott card.

in may 1988, the magazine changed its focus to pcs and pc clones and dispensed with the type-in listings. during the early 1990s, with the decline of the home computer market in favor of the pc market, compute! went out of publication for a while until it was sold to general media, publishers at the time of omni and penthouse magazines. ziff davis bought compute!'s assets, including its subscriber list, in 1994. general media had ceased its publication before the sale.(3)

where are they now?.
robert lock: after founding compute! publications, lock started another successful company, signal research, which was among the first to publish magazines and books about computer games. he also wrote the book, the traditional potters of seagrove, n.c. in 1994, and started southern arts journal a quarterly magazine featuring essays, fiction and poetry about all things southern, in 2005.(1)

richard mansfield: mansfield has written many books, mostly on microsoft technologies, including visual basic .net all in one desk reference for dummies, visual basic .net power tools, office 2003 application development all-in-one desk reference for dummies, visual basic 2005 express edition for dummies, and css web design for dummies. he also writes occasional pieces for devx.com. he created much controversy with an article he wrote there called oop is much better in theory than in practice.

tom r. halfhill: halfhill went on to become a senior editor at byte. he currently writes for microprocessor report and maximum pc.(2)

sources.
tom halfhill's web site;
correction - ziff buys compute assets -- newsbytes news network, august 10, 1994;

external links.
compute! at the classic computer magazine archive website;
southern arts journal;
devx.com;
richard mansfield's article oop is much better in theory than in practice;
microprocessor report;
maximum pc;






</doc>
<doc id="3069860" title="coru\f1a del conde" nonfiltered="31" processed="31" dbindex="30">


coru\f1a del conde is a spanish village and municipality located at the south of burgos province, castile-leon autonomous community, in the aranda de duero jurisdiction. 197 people.

ruins of ancient muslim, later castilian counts' castle, at the top of the hill that towers over the town. santo cristo's romanesque chapel. claims to be the venue of the first human flight by air pioneer diego mar\edn aguilera (a plane was placed by the spanish defence ministry by the castle as a remainder of the fact). birthplace of bishop agust\edn of popay\e1n, colombia.

the town is the heir of roman colonia clunia sulpicia, one of the main hispania's cities and a conventus iuridicum capital of the hispania tarraconensis roman province, located between it and the neighbour pe\f1alba de castro. there, emperor galba was proclaimed by its legions and marched over rome. stones from the ancient city are usually located as part of in noble buildings of the area, such as churches, arches, walls, castles or even palaces at pe\f1aranda de duero.

 external link.
guide about coru\f1a del conde;














</doc>
<doc id="1736073" title="cascade communications" nonfiltered="32" processed="32" dbindex="31">

cascade communications was a westford, massachusetts based manufacturer of communications equipment. 

founding.
cascade was founded by desh deshpande in 1990, and was led by ceo dan smith.  

product.
cascade made a compact frame relay system.  this system allowed service providers to deliver atm-based frame relay service in an efficient and cost-effective package.  

their most important direct competitor was stratacom, which was acquired by cisco systems in 1996 for us $4b.

acquisition.
in 1997, ascend communications acquired cascade communications for us $3.7 billion, to move into atm and frame relay markets. ascend was later acquired by lucent technologies in 1999 in one of the largest mergers in communications equipment history (us $24 billion).  the cascade portion of ascend's business was more interesting to lucent than the modem termination business that comprised the rest of ascend.

the seed of startups.
both desh deshpande and ceo dan smith profited handsomely from the acqusition, as did hundreds of cascade employees.  in addition, cascade was notable for invigorating the telecommunications startup culture in massachusetts in the mid 1990s.  cascade alumni were founders or key contributors to many other financially successful telecom companies:

 arrowpoint, founded by cheng wu.  arrowpoint was bought by cisco for $5.7b during the height of the telecom bubble. ;
 argon networks, which had chris baldwin as vp of marketing.  argon, along with castle networks and redstone, was bought by siemens to form unisphere.
 castle networks, founded by steve kelly.  castle became part of unisphere.
 ignitus, founded by mahesh ganmuhki and peter fetterolf.  ignitus was bought by lucent.
 redstone, founded by jim dolce and kurt melden.  redstone formed the backbone of unisphere, and its product line lives on after juniper networks bought unisphere.
 sonus networks, which hired hassan ahmed as ceo.  sonus remains a public company.
 spring tide networks, which hired bob sullebarger as vp of marketing & product management.  spring tide was bought by lucent for $1.5b.
 sycamore networks, founded by desh deshpande and dan smith.  sycamore remains a public company.




</doc>
<doc id="2220654" title="gateside, fife" nonfiltered="33" processed="33" dbindex="32">

gateside is a small village in the north east of fife, scotland. it is inhabited by around 200 people although a local housing development scheme wish to use a site in gateside, (to the majority of residents dislike) to build many more houses. it also comprises a school, a pub, a church, a town hall and minimart, selling  mini and smart cars.
the river eden runs through the village, which flows to st andrews and then into the north sea.
the nearest large city is perth, although edinburgh is only half an hour away by car.





</doc>
<doc id="6923306" title="magdalena district" nonfiltered="34" processed="34" dbindex="33">



magdalena is a district of the province of chachapoyas. magdalena's district, located on the this south of the province of chachapoyas of the region amazon, in the high part of the interandean vale of the river utcubamba.

fairy cake is located where the low mountain towards the shores of the river utcubamba. fairy cake offers several attractive places for tourists as the beautiful ruins of macro. also he emphasizes the square in the center of the village. to come to fairy cake a car takes in the city of chachapoyas.



the management holidays of the cardinal fairy cake it is celebrated the day of maria magdalena, july 20. the anniversary of the secondary school cesar vallejo is carried out every october 18. as typical meals there is known the parboiled one, the nickname, the candy stick, the locro of bare nickname and the cuy with dads between others. fairy cake is the head office of the parroqu\eda of fairy cake that is attended by a priest of the diocese of chachapoyas.

in the north magdalena's district has border with the district of san isidro of maino (chachapoyas) and the district of levanto (chachapoyas), in the east with the province of rodr\edguez de mendoza, in the south with the district of the jalca (chachapoyas), in the south-west with the district of saint john of lopecancha and in the west with the district of tingo.

external links.
magdalena district official website ;










</doc>
<doc id="571313" title="fran\e7ois coty" nonfiltered="35" processed="35" dbindex="34">
fran\e7ois coty (born joseph marie fran\e7ois spoturno; may 3 1874, ajaccio, corsica july 25 1934, louveciennes) was a french perfume manufacturer and the founder of the fascist paramilitary group solidarit\e9 fran\e7aise.

he married yvonne alexandrine le baron in 1900, and took the more french-looking name coty, a variation on his mother's maiden name, when he moved to paris.

he began by selling essences derived from flowers in grasse, and then peddled his scents to the barbers of paris. his genius, however, was in marketing and in recognizing that the bottle made the perfume. he had bottles designed by the great ceramist ren\e9 lalique. his rose jacqueminot scent, in a bottle by baccarat, was his first great success. coty's great success, chypre, gave its name to an entire fragrance family used in the industry's classifications.

he was one of the wealthiest men in france and owned two paris newspapers, the working class l'ami du peuple and the aristocratic le figaro. he also bought the hunting pavilion of louveciennes near saint-germain-en-laye, once the property of madame du barry. he built multiple large residences, but lived in a hotel on the champs-\c9lys\e9es.

coty was something of a recluse, disliking crowds of any kind, and hiding behind his public image. the company he founded in 1904 is now coty, inc., based in new york city.

the movement he founded drew on the previous coty-backed groups faisceau and croix-de-feu. solidarit\e9 fran\e7aise attempted to become the equivalent of the italian national fascist party, with coty as france's benito mussolini (he styled himself the french duce). never anything but marginal, the group peaked during the february 6, 1934 rally in front of the palais bourbon, when it attempted, in alliance with other far right groups, to topple the third republic (coty had the ambition of having it replaced with a monarchy). the group was outlawed in 1936, through a decision taken by the popular front government.

the stade fran\e7ois coty in ajaccio was named after him.

see also.
february 6, 1934 crisis;
jean despres;

external links.

coty, inc.;
fran\e7ois coty   the corsican father of modern perfumiers;















</doc>
<doc id="134757" title="chamberlain, south dakota" nonfiltered="36" processed="36" dbindex="36">

chamberlain is a city in brule county, south dakota, united states. the population was 2,338 at the 2000 census. it is the county seat of brule county. chamberlain is home to the akta lakota museum, which profiles the live of nomadic plains indians.

geography.

chamberlain is located at  (43.805548, -99.328444).

according to the united states census bureau, the city has a total area of 16.9 km\b2 (6.5 mi\b2). 16.8 km\b2 (6.5 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.1 km\b2 (0.04 mi\b2) of it (0.61%) is water.

chamberlain has been assigned the zip code range 57325-57326 and the fips place code 11220.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 2,338 people, 942 households, and 550 families residing in the city. the population density was 139.3/km\b2 (360.8/mi\b2). there were 1,044 housing units at an average density of 62.2/km\b2 (161.1/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the city was 86.83% white, 0.60% african american, 10.18% native american, 0.38% asian, 0.04% pacific islander, 0.13% from other races, and 1.84% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 0.68% of the population.

there were 942 households out of which 29.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 45.3% were married couples living together, 10.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 41.6% were non-families. 36.2% of all households were made up of individuals and 15.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 2.27 and the average family size was 3.01.

in the city the population was spread out with 26.9% under the age of 18, 6.8% from 18 to 24, 27.2% from 25 to 44, 21.5% from 45 to 64, and 17.5% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 38 years. for every 100 females there were 86.0 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 82.6 males.

the median income for a household in the city was $34,487, and the median income for a family was $43,500. males had a median income of $29,545 versus $22,009 for females. the per capita income for the city was $17,018. about 4.4% of families and 12.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 3.9% of those under age 18 and 25.9% of those age 65 or over.

external links.






</doc>
<doc id="77776" title="all-fours" nonfiltered="37" processed="37" dbindex="37">


all-fours is a card game known in america as old sledge, or seven up. it is usually played by four players, with the full pack of fifty-two cards, which rank in play as at whist, the ace being the highest, and the two
the lowest. the game is seven points.

the game is very popular in blackburn, england, where it is traditionally played in pubs .  even at the present time it is still organised into pub teams who play on sunday nights.  nobody is quite sure how long this game has been played in blackburn, but it has been a fixture in pubs there for a long time.

the game has also been exported to the island nation of the republic of trinidad and tobago, where is it is the de-facto "national" card game.

there are four different items which count towards the score, whence the name all-fours. such items are as follows:

high.--the highest trump out, scoring one to the
original holder.

low.--the lowest trump out, scoring one to the
original holder.

jack.--the knave of trumps, scoring one to the
dealer, if turned up; if otherwise, to the winner of
the trick to which it falls.

game.--scoring one to the ultimate holder of
the more valuable cards in the tricks won by him,
according to the following scale:

for each ten (trump or otherwise)     10;
for each ace                           4;
for each king                          3;
for each queen                         2;
for each knave                         1;

in the case of the players being equal in this particular, or of neither party holding any card which counts towards game, the elder hand scores the point.

method of playing.

the players cut for deal, the highest card having the preference. (this is the old-fashioned rule, but at the present day the whist rule of "lowest card deals" is frequently followed.) the dealer gives six cards to each, turning up the thirteenth as trump. if the elder hand is dissatisfied with his cards, he may say, "i beg," in which case the dealer is bound either to allow him (by the phrase, "take one") to score one point, or to give each player three more cards from the pack, turning up that next following by way of fresh trump card. if this should be of the same suit as the original trump, the dealer is bound to give three more cards to each, again turning up the seventh, until a new suit does actually turn up. if the turn-up card is a knave, the dealer scores one, this taking precedence over any other score. if, by reason of the elder hand "begging," there is a further deal, and the dealer a second time turns up a knave, he again scores one. the elder hand leads any card he pleases. his antagonist must follow suit or trump, his right to do the latter not being affected by his holding cards of the suit led. if, however, having a card of the suit led, he neither follows suit nor trumps, he becomes liable to the penalty of a revoke.

the player of the highest card of the suit led, or a trump, wins the trick, which is turned down as at whist, and the hand progresses through the six tricks. in scoring, the order of precedence is (1) high, (2) low, (3) jack, (4) game; subject, as we have seen, to the contingency of "jack" having been the turn-up card, the point for this being scored before the hand is played.

the play is mainly directed toward capturing the jack, and such cards as may score towards game.

some players score a point whenever the adversary does not follow suit or trump. some, again, make it the rule that each player must count his score without looking at his tricks, under penalty of losing one or more points, as may be agreed, in the event of a miscalculation.

historically, the lowest court playing card was termed the "knave", not the "jack".
however, due to the influence of the all-fours game, the knaves were increasingly referred to as
"jacks". when indices were added to playing cards, the lowest court card was abbreviated as
"j" (jack) in anglo-american cards because "kn" (knave) was too similar to "k" (king),
and from then on the lowest court card in such decks has been referred to as the "jack".
historically, all-fours was a card game played by the lower classes, and thus even the term "jack" was at one time considered vulgar.

other meanings.
the expression on "all fours" sometimes refers to a crouched position of being on hands and knees, or bending down to touch the floor or ground with both hands while still standing (also see adho mukha svanasana).

see also.
four-handed all fours;

external links.
all fours online;
all fours group;
manitoba all-fours association;




</doc>
<doc id="8047139" title="it is no secret" nonfiltered="38" processed="38" dbindex="38">
it is no secret is a christian-country song composed by carl stuart hamblen in 1950's.

lyrics.

it is no secret, 
what god can do. 
what he's done for others, 
he'll do for you. 
with arms wide open, 
he'll welcome you. 
it is no secret, 
what god can do. 

 history .

when hamblin quit drinking thanks to billy graham he began to lose favor with hollywood. he was ultimately fired by the radio station when he refused to accept a beer company as a sponsor. hard times were upon him. during his struggle, john wayne took him aside and told him all your troubles started when you "got religion" and asked if it was worth it all. hamblen answered simply, "yes". then he said, "you liked your booze so much. don't you ever miss it?" and the answer was, "no". john then said, "i don't understand how you could give it up so easily." and  hamblen response was, "it's no big secret. all things are possible with god." to this john said, "that's a catchy phrase. you should write a song about it."



</doc>
<doc id="7226213" title="truth (yuna ito)" nonfiltered="39" processed="39" dbindex="39">


"truth" is yuna ito's 6th single and last of 2006. this is her second single to be a part of the nana franchise, the first being "endless story". 

overview.
truth is said to be a ballad, making it her first ballad since precious which was released on may 3, 2006. this single will be the ending theme to the movie nana ii, a movie which stars mika nakashima and also in which yuna will co-star in.
the pv for "truth" was filmed in scotland as well as the performance to the b-side song take me away that is an inside song for the movie.

tracklist.
 truth;
 take me away;
 endless story -little big bee lovespell remix- ;
 truth -instrumental-;

live performances.
november 26, 2006 - melodix! - "truth";
december 8, 2006 - music station - "truth";
december 9, 2006 - music fighter - "truth";
december 15, 2006   nhk pop jam - "truth";
december 23, 2006   mtv's cool christmas - "white christmas" and "truth";
december 29, 2006   sakigake ongaku banzuke - "precious" and "truth";

charts.
oricon sales chart (japan)






</doc>
<doc id="3060222" title="oenophilia" nonfiltered="40" processed="40" dbindex="40">


oenophilia (ipa: ), originally from greek, is the love (philia) of wine (oeno). an oenophile is a lover of wine. 

in the strictest sense, oenophilia describes a disciplined devotion to wine, accompanying strict traditions of consumption and appreciation. in a general sense however, oenophilia simply refers to the enjoyment of wine, often by laypersons.

oenophiles are also known as a wine aficionados or connoisseurs. they are people who appreciate or collect wine, particularly grape wines from certain regions, varietal types, or methods of manufacture. while most oenophiles are normal, everyday people, some may also be vintners, wine merchants, or as in the case of robert parker, one who tastes and grades wines for a living. 

the oenophile stereotype is often used for comedic effect, a well-known example being the 2004 comedy sideways.

see also.

oenology;
wine tasting;
wine making;
wino;






</doc>
<doc id="2385020" title="larry morrissey" nonfiltered="41" processed="41" dbindex="41">

lawrence j. "larry" morrissey (born in 1969 in rockford, il) is the mayor of rockford, il.  as an independent, morrissey defeated democrat incumbent doug scott in the 2005 mayoral elections after trying in his first run in 2001 with a populist campaign promising road improvements, education reforms, and a revitalized downtown. mayor morrissey has struggled to accomplish some of his plan. his sales tax increase referendum was defeated soundly in the march 2006 primary and his effort to return "home rule" to rockford was defeated on the floor of the rockford city council.  he has been successful at creating a department of lifelong learning, enacting a tough anti-truancy policy, and increasing enforcement of community standard ordinances.

personal.
-his family are very strong democrats.
-he was dating a single mother who has a daughter from a previous relationship.

 external links .

official bio;
campaign site;
swearing in speech;










</doc>
<doc id="1647136" title="wadih sabra" nonfiltered="42" processed="42" dbindex="42">
wadih sabra () is the composer of the lebanese national anthem.

operas.
the shepherds of canaan;
the two kings;
l'\e9migr\e9;

reference.

'operaglass' page (cached)










</doc>
<doc id="4946462" title="tom papania" nonfiltered="43" processed="43" dbindex="43">
tom papania (b. may 30, 1944) is a christian evangelist who claims before his conversion that he was a high-ranking enforcer in the gambino crime family. however, his account is questioned by leading writers and schlders including noted mafia expert and founder of ganglandnews.com, jerry capeci, writer rocky scarfone (who claims that many of the stories papania tells as his own were stolen from his own autobiography, house of cards: the curse of alphonso) and researchers wayne robinson  and brian karjala  who have researched and posted information, email, official u.s. government documents, and certified arrest and imprisonment records concerning papania at the rogues gallery.   

papania's claimed history.
according to papania's claims, he grew up in an italian (sicilian) family in new york city. born thomas anthony papanier to the son of a laborer, tom did not realize until his teens that his late grandfather on his mother's side was joe "the boss" mazaria whom the fbi claims originally brought the mob overseas from europe.  due to a lack of a purposeful relationship with his father, tom went on to a life of crime in his mid-teens. for instance, after donning a ski-mask and robbing the corner cafe, a hangout for italian gangsters, tom instinctively insisted that they remove their pants   a further disrespect   so they couldn't chase him. sometime later   tom states in his messages   three men in black showed up at his home to inform him and his parents that they believed it was tom who had robbed them and that the only reason he was still alive was due to the respect they had for his grandfather. they warned him that if it happened again, not even the respect for his grandfather could save him. tom explains that he never even knew of his grandfather and that after this meeting, his dad severely chastened him, warning him not to speak with these men again.  tom says he was thick headed and having believed that his dad never showed him compassion   he had never taken tom to ball games nor had ever referred to him as a "son"   at the next opportunity, he went to those men and demanded to know who his grandfather was. this is how tom's story begins of his induction into the mafia to become the 3rd highest member under carlo gambino. tom says he was an efficient collector; he threatened people with ice picks or harm toward their family in order to collect on their debts.

the mafia is like a war, inside and out.  externally they are on constant surveillance by police, and internally there are always members who seek to dethrone those in authority at any expense.  tom states that attempts were made on his life at least three times; for example, once they kidnapped him, tied him up in a warehouse and set fire to it, but somehow he always managed to escape.

according to papania, he was ordered to shoot some out-of-state men who robbed the garment district.  he was told that the inside men were takin care of and eliminated, but they wanted to make an example for the guys on the outside by having them shot in the legs. tom says that he did as ordered, but that when he got in the airplane to head back to new york, the only people in the airplane were police who put him under arrest for the shooting of those men whom, tom says, he had not even heard of their names until after his arrest. tom vowed to keep silent and said nothing before the sentencing judge who gave him the maximum penalty, 5 to 7 years.  

after being released on good behavior five years later, tom was asked to see his capo (boss of the family).  in a meeting with him, he was asked what he thought about for the past five years: tom had wondered what he had done wrong to get caught. the men explained to him that it was they who had turned him in as a test of his character, and that he had passed the ultimate test: "welcome to the family, son."  

tom's anger must have boiled but it all simmered down at the sense of belonging to a family for the first time. he says the gambinos offered him anything out of the "black book" to have control over.  since tom liked a few of the discoth\e8ques, he asked for a couple of days to think it over.  as the story goes, tom was given all three of these for his faithful service.

regardless of all the millions of dollars he was making, tom says there remained a vacuum in his life.  papania claims that after his conversion to christianity, he told paul castellano, the current boss at the time, that he was leaving the mafia.  castellano, according to papania, had a contract on tom's life until john gotti took over in december of 1985.

ministry.
tom currently has a ministry for prisoners and their families and shares his story around the world.

external links.
link to tom papania's website - god's saving grace ministries;
tom papania's testimony;
"former mobster takes a hit in domain-name dispute" -- article regarding papania and scarfone's domain-name dispute;
"tom papania's testimony is fraudulent! view certified usa courtroom transcripts from tom himself that prove it" -- link to webisite with certified records;
"about rogues gallery and tom papania" -- over 50 pages of tom papania history ;
"cnbc television interview with tom papania"  -- on demand papania video and articles;
"jerry capeci of ganglandnews says he certainly ain't what he claims to be";


 


</doc>
<doc id="9349921" title="hackmeeting" nonfiltered="44" processed="44" dbindex="44">
 

this article is being considered for deletion in accordance with wikipedia's 
you may share your thoughts on the matter at  on the  page.
please improve the article if possible, but the article must not be blanked, and this notice must not be removed, until the discussion is closed. for more information, particularly on merging or moving the article during the discussion, read the .
----
:    preloaded debate or  ~~~~    log




in hackmeetings, local hacklabs and other similar groups  take part in a multitude of activities related to internet and new technologies, from a political point of view and social, like conferences, round tables, demonstrations, factories and other activities- all of them generally open to the public.

the main reason for this is to present movements like free software, new technologies like wireless and the problems derived from the new technologies like lack of privacy, besides also to spread techniques and applied computer science knowledge of high level.

meeting places are usually social centers okupados, and public. hackmeeting is inspired by the event hackit that began 1998 in italy, although through the years it has been evolving until obtaining its own identity. it also exists as hackmeeting international, by the alias transhackmeeting, which celebrated its first edition in croatia.



</doc>
<doc id="306725" title="wallerfangen" nonfiltered="45" processed="45" dbindex="45">
wallerfangen is a municipality of saarlouis district, saarland, germany.  located west of saarlouis and along the french border, it is the seat of the villages of ittersdorf, ihn, leidingen, st. barbara, kerlingen, gisingen, rammelfangen, oberlimberg, bedersdorf, and d\fcren. it was established by the duchy of lorraine, and belonged to the duchy until the napoleonic wars in the late 18th century, at which time it came under french control. up until 1687, wallerfangen possessed town privileges. in that year, the fortifications and most of the buildings were destroyed and the inhabitants were moved to the newly found town-fortress of saarlouis.

in 1815, under the treaty of paris, prussia assumed control of the area. for all intents and purposes, it remained in the possession of the german federation of states until 1919. the treaty of versailles created an independent and autonomous territory of saargebiet, administered by france and the league of nations until 1935. under the terms of versailles, the citizens of the saargebiet voted to become part of germany, doing so inspite of adolf hitler having assumed power in 1933.

world war ii brought much despair and bloodshed for wallerfangen and its citizens. being the western border of the german reich, the area became battleground in 1944/45, and the area was evacuated en masse twice. after wwii, wallerfangen belonged to the newly independent, but french controlled, saarland.







</doc>
<doc id="1797398" title="santa cruz, madeira" nonfiltered="46" processed="46" dbindex="46">


santa cruz (pron. , portuguese meaning holy cross) is a parish in the eastern part of madeira.  much of the parish is mountainous, while farmlands cover the remainder of the land including a couple of cherry fields.  santa cruz is linked with madeira's only superhighway.   it is the third largest major parish in population after funchal and c\e2mara de lobos.  its parish population is 16,842- and the borough is 29,721.  the parish is one of the smallest on the island.  its area is 81.52 km\b2/8,152 ha.  its density is 354.59/km\b2 thus ranking the second most densest in madeira.  it is located se of santana, sw of machico, ne of funchal.  it is linked with a road linking funchal and machico while part of the parish is passed with a road linking to santana.  the urban sprawl of funchal lies westward, while in the east of the parish is the international funchal airport, the gateway to madeira.

the main source of industry are agriculture and fishing while a number of businesses are in the downtown area.  the area is split with a stream.

location:
latitude: 32.6833 (32\b041') n;
longitude: 16.8 (16\b048') w;

santa cruz has a few schools, a few lyceums, a gymnasium, banks, a post office, a small port, beaches and squares or plazas (pra\e7as).

parishes.
the 5 parishes of santa cruz include:

 camacha;
 cani\e7o;
 gaula;
 santa cruz;
 santo ant\f3nio da serra

parish of c\e2mara de lobos.
the parish has a population of 6,070 in 2001, its density is 216/km\b2 and the area is 28.1 km\b2/2,810 ha.

nearest parishes (parish).

agua de pena, north;
santo antonio da serra, northwest;
camacha, west;
gaula, southwest;

external links.

official site;
photography
photos of santa cruz;
map and aerial photos;
street map from mapquest, mappoint or google;
aerial photograph from microsoft terraserver or google;
coordinates: ;


















</doc>
<doc id="6769390" title="santa maria a vico" nonfiltered="47" processed="47" dbindex="47">

santa maria a vico is a comune (municipality) in the province of caserta in the italian region campania, located about 30 km northeast of naples and about 13 km southeast of caserta. as of 31 december 2004, it had a population of 13,827 and an area of 10.8 km2.

santa maria a vico borders the following municipalities: arienzo, cervino, durazzano, maddaloni, san felice a cancello, sant'agata de' goti.


 demographic evolution .

colors=
  id:lightgrey value:gray(0.9)
  id:darkgrey  value:gray(0.8)
  id:sfondo value:rgb(1,1,1)
  id:barra value:rgb(0.6,0.7,0.8)

imagesize  = width:455 height:303
plotarea   = left:50 bottom:50 top:30 right:30
dateformat = x.y
period     = from:0 till:14000
timeaxis   = orientation:vertical
alignbars  = justify
scalemajor = gridcolor:darkgrey increment:2000 start:0
scaleminor = gridcolor:lightgrey increment:500 start:0
backgroundcolors = canvas:sfondo

bardata=
  bar:1861 text:1861
  bar:1871 text:1871
  bar:1881 text:1881
  bar:1901 text:1901
  bar:1911 text:1911
  bar:1921 text:1921
  bar:1931 text:1931
  bar:1936 text:1936
  bar:1951 text:1951
  bar:1961 text:1961
  bar:1971 text:1971
  bar:1981 text:1981
  bar:1991 text:1991
  bar:2001 text:2001

plotdata=
  color:barra width:20 align:left

  bar:1861 from: 0 till:5855
  bar:1871 from: 0 till:5940
  bar:1881 from: 0 till:5921
  bar:1901 from: 0 till:6610
  bar:1911 from: 0 till:6968
  bar:1921 from: 0 till:7569
  bar:1931 from: 0 till:8337
  bar:1936 from: 0 till:8573
  bar:1951 from: 0 till:9549
  bar:1961 from: 0 till:9350
  bar:1971 from: 0 till:8738
  bar:1981 from: 0 till:10447
  bar:1991 from: 0 till:12182
  bar:2001 from: 0 till:13502

plotdata=

  bar:1861 at:5855 fontsize:xs text: 5855 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1871 at:5940 fontsize:xs text: 5940 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1881 at:5921 fontsize:xs text: 5921 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1901 at:6610 fontsize:xs text: 6610 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1911 at:6968 fontsize:xs text: 6968 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1921 at:7569 fontsize:xs text: 7569 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1931 at:8337 fontsize:xs text: 8337 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1936 at:8573 fontsize:xs text: 8573 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1951 at:9549 fontsize:xs text: 9549 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1961 at:9350 fontsize:xs text: 9350 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1971 at:8738 fontsize:xs text: 8738 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1981 at:10447 fontsize:xs text: 10447 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1991 at:12182 fontsize:xs text: 12182 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:2001 at:13502 fontsize:xs text: 13502 shift:(-8,5)

textdata=
  fontsize:s pos:(20,20)
  text:data from istat



references.















</doc>
<doc id="6540707" title="peter simpson (native rights activist)" nonfiltered="48" processed="48" dbindex="48">


peter simpson (1871?-1947) was a canadian-born tsimshian activist for alaska native rights.  he grew up in metlakatla, alaska, but his tsimshian ancestors were from lax kw'alaams and metlakatla, british columbia.

peter simpson was born july 4, 1871, in metlakatla or lax kw'alaams (a.k.a. port simpson), b.c., though there is conflicting information on his date and place of birth.  he was listed as twenty-three years old in 1887 when approximately 800 tsimshians from "old metlakatla," b.c., founded the community of "new metlakatla," alaska.  he was a member of the gispwudwada (killerwhale clan) of the tsimshian and was raised by an uncle and aunt, henry and alice ridley.  he was also related to the rev. edward marsden.

he was well liked by the anglican lay minister william duncan, founder of the christian utopian communities at both old and new metlakatla.  when simpson was a young man, he was one of the eight people sent in a canoe by duncan from new metlakatla to dismantle the church they had left behind at old metlakatla.  they hacked it to pieces and burned it to the ground and escaped back to alaska before they could face prosecution.  (not all histories of old metlakatla record this as the cause of the fire that destroyed the church in 1901.)

simpson also was a principal investor in the short-lived sawmill community of port gravina, near ketchikan, alaska, from its founding in 1892 until it burned in 1904.  this was an offshoot of the metlakatla community, one committed to presbyterianism under marsden.  after the fire, simpson moved to juneau, and then to sitka, alaska.

in 1912, simpson became chairman of the committee that was eventually to form the alaska native brotherhood (anb), and the committee's only non-tlingit member.  he is considered the father of the anb and also "the father of land claims" in alaska, the long process that led to the alaska native claims settlement act (without metlakatla's participation, interestingly), long after his death.

simpson is widely known for his famous quotation, uttered to the tlingit land-claims activist william paul at the 1925 anb convention: "willie, who owns this land?"  william paul (after a long pause): "we do."  peter simpson: "then fight for it."  one biography of paul, then fight for it, by fred paul (william's son), derives its title from this exchange.

simpson helped build sitka's sawmill in 1935 and was closely involved in the life of the sheldon jackson school there (now sheldon jackson college).  the school's workboat the sjs was built by simpson in 1936, and in 1942 it became a u.s. navy patrol boat.

simpson's wife, mary sloan, was a tlingit from sitka.  they raised fifteen children.  he died december 27, 1947, in sitka.

bibliography.

johnson, gertrude mather (1994) "the life of peter simpson."  in haa kusteey\ed, our culture: tlingit life stories, ed. by nora marks dauenhauer and richard dauenhauer, pp. 665-676.  seattle: university of washington press.


</doc>
<doc id="1079109" title="aba digital signature guidelines" nonfiltered="49" processed="49" dbindex="49">
the aba digital signature guidelines are a set of guidelines published on 1 august 1996 by the american bar association (aba) section of science and technology law.  the authors are members of the section's information security committee.  the document was the first overview of principles and a framework for the use of digital signatures and authentication in electronic commerce from a legal viewpoint, including technologies such as certificate authorities and public key infrastructure (pki).  the guidelines were a product of a four-year collaboration by 70 lawyers and technical experts from a dozen countries, and have been adopted as the model for legislation by some states in the us, including florida and utah.

the digital signature guidelines were followed by the public key infrastructure assessment guidelines published by the aba in 2003.

a similar effort was undertaken in slovenia by the digital signature working group (within the chamber of commerce and industry of slovenia (ccis)).

external links.
 the aba digital signature guidelines available for download;
 a tutorial;






</doc>
<doc id="3116814" title="mar\e9chal, nous voil\e0 !" nonfiltered="50" processed="50" dbindex="50">
mar\e9chal, nous voil\e0 ! (marshal, here we are!) is a french song dedicated to marshal petain. lyrics were composed by andr\e9 montagnard, and music was composed by andr\e9 montagnard and charles curtioux. the song was performed by andr\e9 dassary and whole school children in unoccupied france and algeria during vichy france.

la marseillaise remained the official anthem of the state, but a popular though unofficial patriotic song was mar\e9chal, nous voil\e0 !. officially, the song was created in 1940, but montagnard and curtioux actually reused another song dedicated to the tour de france called voil\e0 le tour qui passe. the first two lines of that song were:  attention, les voil\e0 ! les coureurs, les g\e9ants de la route.

lyrics.
une flamme sacr\e9e
monte du sol natal
et la france enivr\e9e
te salue mar\e9chal!
tous tes enfants qui t'aiment
et v\e9n\e8rent tes ans
a ton appel supr\eame
ont r\e9pondu \ab pr\e9sent \bb

refrain:
mar\e9chal nous voil\e0!
devant toi, le sauveur de la france
nous jurons, nous, tes gars
de servir et de suivre tes pas
mar\e9chal nous voil\e0!
tu nous as redonn\e9 l'esp\e9rance
la patrie rena\eetra!
mar\e9chal, mar\e9chal, nous voil\e0!

tu as lutt\e9 sans cesse
pour le salut commun
on parle avec tendresse
du h\e9ros de verdun
en nous donnant ta vie
ton g\e9nie et ta foi
tu sauves la patrie
une seconde fois:

refrain

quand ta voix nous r\e9p\e8te
afin de nous unir:
"fran\e7ais levons la t\eate,
regardons l'avenir!"
nous, brandissant la toile
du drapeau immortel,
dans l'or de tes \e9toiles,
nous voyons luire un ciel:

refrain

la guerre est inhumaine
quel triste \e9pouvantail!
n'\e9coutons plus la haine
exaltons le travail
et gardons confiance
dans un nouveau destin
car p\e9tain, c'est la france,
la france, c'est p\e9tain!

refrain





</doc>
<doc id="3880295" title="palm court" nonfiltered="51" processed="51" dbindex="51">
for the vancouver highrise, see palm court (vancouver).

a palm court is a large room, usually in a prestigious hotel, where functions are staged, notably tea dances.  notable examples include the ritz hotel in london (pictured) and alexandra palace.

the concept of the palm court orchestra, a small orchestra playing light classical music, comes from this root.


</doc>
<doc id="452451" title="howard scott warshaw" nonfiltered="52" processed="52" dbindex="52">
howard scott warshaw is a former game designer who worked for atari in the early 1980s, where he designed and programmed the games yars' revenge, raiders of the lost ark, and the infamous flop, e.t. the extra-terrestrial. he has also written two books and directed two video documentaries.


warshaw's first success, yars' revenge, first started as an atari 2600 adaptation of the arcade game star castle. however, as limitations became clear, warshaw re-adapted the concept into a new game involving mutated houseflies defending their world against an alien attacker. the game was a major success and is still regarded as one of the best games made for the atari 2600. this led warshaw to be picked as the designer of the game adaptation of the film raiders of the lost ark, which was also a commercial success and was critically acclaimed at the time.

it was his success on raiders that led to warshaw being chosen to design and program the ill-fated atari 2600 adaptation of e.t. the extra-terrestrial. problems began early as he was only given five weeks to go from concept to finished product. amazingly, he was able to finish the game on time. however, it was poorly received, seen as being confusing and frustrating. atari took a major financial loss on the project, which combined with other poor business decisions and conditions, led to the company being divided and sold within two years. during this time, warshaw developed and finished another game called saboteur, which was then re-adapted into a game based on the television series the a-team. however, atari was dismantled before either version could be released.

following the collapse of atari, warshaw wrote two books. the first, the complete book of pan, is a guide to the card game of the same name. in the second, conquering college, warshaw discusses his techniques toward academic success, referred to as rasabic (read ahead, stay ahead, be in class) which enabled him to graduate early and save one full year's tuition.
later, he studied video production, and released the documentary from there to here: scenes of passage., a chronicle of the american immigration of two russian women from the same family, one in 1912 and the other in 1978. subsequently he went on to produce the multi-part documentary once upon atari, a collection of interviews and stories of employees and designers at atari during the late 1970s and early 1980s.

in 2004 classic video game enthusiasts were able to produce cartridges of saboteur for sale at game expos. it debued at phillyclassic 5 where warshaw was at hand to bless the distribution and even autograph the cartridges. that year atari also released the atari flashback system that includes fifteen atari 2600 and five atari 7800 titles, including saboteur.

in his games, warshaw is also known for always leaving his initials as an easter egg. along with this, in raiders of the lost ark, the player can find a "yar;" and in e.t., the player can find both a "yar" and an "indy."; in yar's revenge, if the player stays on the "mean streak" while the base is exploding, hswwsh (his initials forwards and backwards) appear on the screen - and end the game.

external links.
 howard scott warshaw's home page;
 once upon atari;
 warshaw's conquering college book;
 warshaw's pan book;
 digital press interview with howard scott warshaw;
howard scott warshaw profile on mobygames;






</doc>
<doc id="8368367" title="raoul van caenegem" nonfiltered="53" processed="53" dbindex="53">
raoul van caenegem, a belgian historian, was a professor at the university of ghent. in 1974, he was awarded the francqui prize on human sciences for his work on medieval history. he studied the history of continental and common law, and why they diverge so sharply. he revealed the significance of power struggles between the judiciary, legislators and legal scholars.

references.








</doc>
<doc id="355024" title="capital (architecture)" nonfiltered="54" processed="54" dbindex="54">


in several traditions of architecture including classical architecture, the capital (from the latin caput, 'head') forms the crowning member of the column. the capital projects on each side as it rises, in order to support the abacus and unite the form of the latter (normally square) with the circular shaft of the column. the bulk of the capital may either be convex, as in the doric order; concave, as in the inverted bell of the corinthian order; or scrolling out, as in the ionic order. these form the three principal types on which all capitals are based. the composite order (illustration, right) established in the 16th century on a hint from the arch of titus, adds ionic volutes to corinthian acanthus leaves.

from the prominent position it occupies in all monumental buildings, the capital is often selected for ornamentation, and is often the clearest indicator of the architectural order (see orders of architecture). the treatment of its detail may be an indication of the building's date. 

ancient capitals.

the two earliest egyptian capitals of importance are those which are based on the lotus and papyrus plants respectively, and these, with the palm tree capital, were the chief types employed by the egyptians, until under the ptolemies in the 3rd to 1st centuries bce, various other river plants were also employed, and the conventional lotus capital went through various modifications.

some kind of volute capital is shown in the assyrian bas-reliefs, but no assyrian capital has ever been found; the enriched bases exhibited in the british museum were initially misinterpreted as capitals.

 
in the achaemenid persian capital the brackets are carved with the lion or the griffin projecting right and left to support the architrave; on their backs they carry other brackets at right angles to support the cross timbers. the profuse decoration underneath the bracket capital in the palaces of xerxes at susa and elsewhere, serves no structural function, but gives some variety to the extenuated shaft.

the earliest aegean capital is that shown in the frescoes at knossos in crete (1600 bce); it was of the convex type, probably moulded in stucco. capitals of the second, concave type, include the richly carved examples of the columns flanking the tomb of agamemnon in mycenae (c. 1100 bce): they are carved with a chevron device, and with a concave apophyge on which the buds of some flowers are sculpted.

classical capitals.
the doric capital is the simplest of the five classical orders: it consists of the abacus above an ovolo molding, with an astragal collar set below. in the temple of apollo, syracuse (c. 700 bce), the echinus moulding has become a more definite form: this in the parthenon reaches its culmination, where the convexity is at the top and bottom with a delicate uniting curve. the sloping side of the echinus becomes flatter in the later examples, and in the colosseum at rome forms a quarter round (see the more complete discussion at doric order). 

in the ionic capital (illustration, left), spirally coiled volutes are inserted between the abacus and the ovolo. in the ionic capitals of the archaic temple of artemis at ephesus (560 bce) the width of the abacus is twice that of its depth, consequently the earliest ionic capital known was virtually a bracket capital. a century later, in the temple on the ilissus, the abacus has become square (see the more complete discussion at ionic order).


it has been suggested that the foliage of the greek corinthian capital was based on the acanthus spinosus, that of the roman on the acanthus mollis. not all architectural foliage is as realistic as isaac ware's (illustration, right) however. the leaves are generally carved in two 'ranks' or bands, like one leafy cup set within another. one of the most beautiful corinthian capitals is that from the tholos of epidaurus (400 bce); it illustrates the transition between the earlier greek capital, as at bassae, and the roman version that renaissance and modern architects inherited and refined (see the more complete discussion at corinthian order).

in roman architectural practice, capitals are briefly treated in their proper context among the detailing proper to each of the 'orders', in the only complete architectural textbook to have survived from classical times, the ten books on architecture, by marcus vitruvius pollio, better known just as vitruvius, dedicated to the emperor augustus. the various orders are discussed in vitruvius' books iii and iv. vitruvius describes roman practice in a practical fashion. he gives some tales about the invention of each of the orders, but he does not give a hard and fast set of canonical rules for the execution of capitals. 

two further, specifically roman orders of architecture have their characteristic capitals, the sturdy and primitive tuscan capitals, typically used in military buildings, similar to greek doric, but with fewer small moldings in its profile, and the invented composite capitals not even mentioned by vitruvius, which combined ionic volutes and corinthian acanthus capitals, in an order that was otherwise quite similar in proportions to the corinthian, itself an order that romans employed much more often than greeks. 

the increasing adoption of composite capitals signalled a trend towards freer, more inventive (and often coarser) capitals in late antiquity.

indo-corinthian capitals.

main article: indo-corinthian capital;
indo-corinthian capitals are capitals crowning columns or pilasters, which can be found in the northwestern indian subcontinent, and usually combine hellenistic and indian elements. these capitals are typically dated to the first centuries of our era, and constitute important elements of greco-buddhist art.

the classical design was often adapted, usually taking a more elongated form, and sometimes being combined with scrolls, generally within the context of buddhist stupas and temples. indo-corinthian capitals also incorporated figures of the buddha or bodhisattvas, usually as central figures surrounded by, and often under the shade of, the luxurious foliage of corinthian designs.

byzantine and gothic capitals.






byzantine capitals are of endless variety; the roman composite capital would seem to have been the favourite type they followed at first: subsequently, the block of stone was left rough as it came from the quarry, and the sculptor, set to carve it, evolved new types of design to his own fancy, so that one rarely meets with many repetitions of the same design. one of the most remarkable is the capital in which the leaves are carved as if blown by the wind; the finest example being in santa sophia, thessalonica; those in the cathedral of saint mark, venice specially attracted ruskin's fancy. others appear in st apollinare-in-classe, ravenna. 

the capital in san vitale, ravenna shows above it the dosseret required to carry the arch, the springing of which was much wider than the abacus of the capital.

the romanesque and gothic capitals throughout europe present as much variety as in the byzantine and for the same reason, that the artist evolved his conception of the design trom the block he was carving, but in these styles it goes further, on account of the clustering of columns and piers.

the earliest type of capital in lombardy and germany is that which is known as the cushion-cap, in which the lower portion of the cube block has been cut away to meet the circular shaft. these early types were generally painted at first with various geometrical designs, afterwards carved.

in byzantine capitals, the eagle, the lion and the lamb are occasionally carved, but treated conventionally.  in england and france, the figures introduced into the capitals are sometimes full of character. these capitals, however, are not equal to those of the early english school, in which the foliage is conventionally treated as if it had been copied from metalwork, and is of infinite variety, being found in small village churches as well as in cathedrals.

renaissance and post-renaissance capitals.
in the renaissance period the feature became of the greatest importance and its variety almost as great as in the byzantine and gothic styles. the flat pilaster, which was employed so extensively in the renaissance, called for a planar rendition of the capital, executed in high relief. this affected the designs of capitals. a traditional 15th century early renaissance variant of the composite capital turns the volutes inwards above stiffened leaf carving. in new renaissance combinations in capital designs, most of the ornament can be traced to roman sources.

the renaissance was as much a reinterpretation as a revival of classical norms. the volutes of greek and roman ionic capitals lie in the same plane as the architrave above them. this may create an awkward transition at the corner, where, for example, the designer of the temple of athena nike on the acropolis, brought the outside volute of the end capitals forward at a 45-degree angle. the problem was more satisfactorily solved by the 16th century renaissance architect sebastiano serlio, who angled outwards all the volutes of his ionic capitals. since then, the use of antique ionic capitals, instead of serlio's version, has tended to lend an archaic air to the entire context, as in greek revival.

within the bounds of decorum, a certain amount of inventive play has always been acceptable within the classical tradition. when benjamin latrobe redesigned the senate vestibule in the united states capitol in 1807, he introduced six columns that he 'americanized' with ears of corn (maize) substituting for the european acanthus leaves. as latrobe reported to thomas jefferson in august 1809,
"these capitals during the summer session obtained me more applause from members of congress than all the works of magnitude or difficulty that surround them. they christened them the 'corncob capitals'.";



references.
 lewis, philippa & gillian darley (1986) dictionary of ornament, ny: pantheon;





















</doc>
<doc id="8013366" title="the darkest cloud" nonfiltered="55" processed="55" dbindex="55">


the darkest cloud is the debut album by chicago rapper vakill, released may 5, 2003 on molemen records . the album came eight long years after the rapper's 1995 debut ep who's afraid? . the album drew acclaim from underground fans and critics alike, due to its dark production and advanced lyricism . the darkest cloud features production from members of the molemen, and guest appearances from slug (of atmosphere), copywrite, camu tao, breez evahflowin and jakki da motamouth . the album's lead single is "end of days" b/w "sickplicity" b/w "the creed" .

track listing.



album singles.





</doc>
<doc id="6058974" title="1984 orange bowl" nonfiltered="56" processed="56" dbindex="56">

the 1984 orange bowl, played on january 2 between unbeaten nebraska cornhuskers and once-beaten miami hurricanes has been listed among the most memorable college football games by various sources, including abc sports online's five "classic orange bowl moments".. after leading 31-17 in the fourth quarter, miami held on for a 31-30 victory.  nebraska pulled to within one with :48 left to play, but a two-point conversion attempt by nebraska failed when quarterback turner gill's pass was tipped away by miami safety ken calhoun. the win gave miami its first national championship.

the osborne decision.
nebraska coach tom osborne made a particularly memorable call, a trick play later named the fumblerooski at a score of 17-0 for miami. however, the match became a textbook case in game theory because of osborne's call for a two-point conversion in the closing minutes which his team could not execute, leading to the one-point loss. a simple extra point conversion would have tied the game and arguably given nebraska the national championship. avinash dixit and barry nalebuff note that the coach's fault was not in not going for the tie, but in not looking ahead earlier: "tom osborne would have done better to first try the two-point attempt (at the score of 31-23), and then if it succeeded go for the one-point, while if it failed attempt a second two-pointer." dixit and nalebuff offer the example as a case of faulty decision making under uncertainty.

references.




see also.
1983 miami hurricanes football team;

 external links.
 orange bowl official site recap;
 nebraska cornhuskers official site recap;
 miami hurricanes official site recap;
 miami hurricanes fan site recap;
 espn.com page 2 the list: greatest bowl games;






</doc>
<doc id="3610684" title="mu beta psi" nonfiltered="57" processed="57" dbindex="57">

mu beta psi national honorary musical fraternity is a service and music fraternity with chapters and colonies at universities throughout the united states. founded in 1925 at north carolina state university by the director of bands, major percy walter "daddy" price, this group began as a male-only, honor fraternity for band students.  however, it soon spread to a number of colleges throughout the southern united states and allowed women to join the group in the early 1960s.  by the early 2000s, the fraternity had spread to several colleges through the eastern united states, both in the north and south.

although the name contains national honorary musical fraternity, mu beta psi views itself as primarily a music service group.  several of the chapters run scholarship programs and pride themselves on giving service to their music departments.  

 active chapters .
the chapters were named in order of their acceptance to mu beta psi.



in addition, mu beta psi has an alumni association that is considered an active chapter.  the alumni association is open to alumni of all mu beta psi chapters, active or otherwise.

external links.
mu beta psi national webpage;






</doc>
<doc id="5683191" title="american ninja v" nonfiltered="58" processed="58" dbindex="58">
american ninja v is a 1993 action/adventure sequel starring david bradley and lee reyes. it was directed by bobby jean leonard and written by john bryant hedberg, greg latter and george saunders.

see also.
american ninja;
american ninja 2: the confrontation;
american ninja 3: blood hunt;
american ninja 4: the annihilation;

external links.
;


</doc>
<doc id="8372222" title="gordon landon" nonfiltered="59" processed="59" dbindex="59">
 
gordon landon is a long-time and popular figure in local politics in markham, ontario. landon is a long-time resident in the town and had been a regional councillor before retiring from politics due to illness. landon recovered and was elected back to york regional council in november 2006.





</doc>
<doc id="41657" title="reproduction speed" nonfiltered="60" processed="60" dbindex="60">
in telecommunication, the term reproduction speed has the following meanings: 

 in facsimile systems, the rate at which recorded copy is produced. (the reproduction speed is usually expressed (a) as the area of recorded copy produced per unit time, such as square meters per second or (b) as the number of pages per minute.);
in duplicating equipment, the rate at which copies are made. (the reproduction speed is usually expressed in pages per minute.);

source: from federal standard 1037c and from mil-std-188



</doc>
<doc id="82188" title="list of texas counties" nonfiltered="61" processed="61" dbindex="61">

a list of the 254 counties in the u.s. state of texas:




a.
anderson county formed in 1846 from part of houston county.
andrews county formed in 1876 from bexar county.
angelina county formed in 1846 from part of nacogdoches county.
aransas county formed in 1871 from part of refugio county.
archer county formed in 1858 from part of clay county.
armstrong county formed in 1876 from bexar county.
atascosa county formed in 1856 from bexar county.
austin county formed in 1836. one of the original counties, was a "municipio" called san felipe de austin and capital of the "departamento" of brazos under mexican rule.

b.
bailey county formed in 1876 from bexar county.
bandera county formed in 1856 from bexar county.
bastrop county formed in 1836. one of the original counties, was called mina until 1837. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
baylor county formed in 1858 from part of fannin county.
bee county formed in 1857 from parts of san patricio county, goliad county, refugio county, live oak county, and karnes county.
bell county formed in 1850 from part of milam county.
bexar county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. san antonio de b\e9xar was a "municipio" and capital of the "departamento" of b\e9xar under mexican rule.
blanco county formed in 1858 from parts of burnet county, comal county, gillespie county and hays county.
borden county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
bosque county formed in 1854 from part of mclennan county.
bowie county formed in 1840 from part of red river county.
brazoria county formed in 1836. one of the original counties, was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
brazos county formed in 1841 from parts of washington county. was named navasota county until 1842.
brewster county formed in 1887 from presidio county.
briscoe county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
brooks county formed in 1911 from part of starr county.
brown county formed in 1856 from parts of comanche county and travis county.
burleson county formed in 1846 from milam county.
burnet county formed in 1852 from parts of bell county, travis county and williamson county.

c.
caldwell county formed in 1848 from parts of bastrop county and gonzalez county.
calhoun county formed in 1846 from parts of jackson county, matagorda county and victoria county.
callahan county formed in 1858 from parts of bexar county, bosque county, and travis county.
cameron county formed in 1848 from part of nueces county and lands ceded by mexico.
camp county formed in 1874 from part of upshur county.
carson county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
cass county formed in 1846 from part of bowie county. was named davis county between 1861 and 1871.
castro county formed in 1876 form part of bexar county.
chambers county formed in 1858 from parts of jefferson county and liberty county.
cherokee county formed in 1846 from part of nacogdoches county.
childress county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county and young county.
clay county formed in 1857 from part of cooke county.
cochran county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
coke county formed in 1889 from part of tom green county.
coleman county formed in 1858 from parts of brown county and travis county.
collin county formed in 1846 from part of fannin county.
collingsworth county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
colorado county formed in 1836. one of the original counties.
comal county formed in 1846 from part of bexar county.
comanche county formed in 1856 from parts of bosque county and coryell county.
concho county formed in 1858 from bexar county.
cooke county formed in 1848 from part of fannin county.
coryell county formed in 1854 from part of bell county.
cottle county formed in 1876 from part of fannin county.
crane county formed in 1887 from part of tom green county.
crockett county formed in 1875 from part of bexar county.
crosby county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
culberson county formed in 1911 from part of el paso county.

d.
dallam county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
dallas county formed in 1846 from parts of nacogdoches county and robertson county.
dawson county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
deaf smith county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
delta county formed in 1870 from parts of hopkins county and lamar county.
denton county formed in 1846 from part of fannin county.
dewitt county formed in 1846 from parts of goliad county, gonzales county, and victoria county.
dickens county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
dimmit county formed in 1858 from parts of bexar county, maverick county, uvalde county and webb county;
donley county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
duval county formed in 1858 from parts of live oak county, nueces county and starr county.

e.
eastland county formed in 1858 from parts of bosque county, coryell county, and travis county.
ector county formed in 1887 from part of tom green county.
edwards county formed in 1858 from parts of bexar county.
el paso county formed in 1848 from part of santa fe county.
ellis county formed in 1849 from part of navarro county.
erath county formed in 1856 from parts of bosque county and coryell county.

f.
falls county formed in 1850 from limestone county and milam county.
fannin county formed in 1837 from part of red river county.
fayette county formed in 1837 from part of bastrop county.
fisher county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
floyd county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county and young county.
foard county formed in 1891 from parts of cottle county, hardeman county, king county and knox county.
fort bend county formed in 1837 from parts of austin county, brazoria county, and harris county.
franklin county formed in 1875 from part of titus county.
freestone county formed in 1850 from parts of limestone county.
frio county formed in 1858 from parts of atascosa county, bexar county, and uvalde county.

g.
gaines county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
galveston county formed in 1838 from parts of brazoria county, harris county and liberty county.
garza county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
gillespie county formed in 1848 from parts of bexar county and travis county.
glasscock county formed in 1887 from part of tom green county.
goliad county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
gonzales county formed in 1836. one of the original counties.
gray county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
grayson county formed in 1846 from part of fannin county.
gregg county formed in 1873 from part of upshur county.
grimes county formed in 1846 from part of montgomery county.
guadalupe county formed in 1846 from parts of bexar county and gonzalez county.

h.
hale county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
hall county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
hamilton county formed in 1856 from parts of bosque county, comanche county, and lampasas county.
hansford county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
hardeman county formed in 1858 from part fannin county.
hardin county formed in 1858 from parts of jefferson county and liberty county.
harris county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule with the name harrisburg. changed to harris county in 1839.
harrison county formed in 1839 from part of shelby county.
hartley county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
haskell county formed in 1858 from parts of fannin county and milam county. ;
hays county formed in 1848 from part of travis county.
hemphill county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
henderson county formed in 1846 from parts of houston and nacogdoches county.
hidalgo county formed in 1852 from part of cameron county.
hill county formed in 1853 from part of navarro county.
hockley county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
hood county formed in 1866 from part of johnson county.
hopkins county formed in 1846 from parts of lamar county and nacogdoches county.
houston county formed in 1837 from part of nacogdoches county.
howard county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
hudspeth county formed in 1917 from part of el paso county.
hunt county formed in 1846 from parts of fannin county and nacogdoches county.
hutchinson county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.

i.
irion county formed in 1889 from part of tom green county.

j.
jack county formed in 1856 from cooke county.
jackson county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
jasper county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule named bevil.
jeff davis county formed in 1887 from presidio county.
jefferson county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
jim hogg county formed in 1913 from parts of brooks county and duval county.
jim wells county formed in 1911 from part of nueces county.
johnson county formed in 1854 from parts of ellis county, hill county and navarro county.
jones county formed in 1858 from parts of bexar county and bosque county.

k.
karnes county formed in 1854 from parts of bexar county, dewitt county, goliad county, gonzales county and san patricio county.
kaufman county formed in 1848 from part of henderson county.
kendall county formed in 1862 from parts of blanco county and kerr county.
kenedy county formed in 1921 from parts of hidalgo county and willacy county.
kent county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
kerr county formed in 1856 from part of bexar county.
kimble county formed in 1858 from part of bexar county.
king county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
kinney county formed in 1850 from part of bexar county.
kleberg county formed in 1913 from part of nueces county.
knox county formed in 1858 from parts of bexar county and young county.

l.
la salle county formed in 1858 from parts of bexar county.
lamar county formed in 1840 from part of red river county.
lamb county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county. ;
lampasas county formed in 1856 from parts of bell county, coryell county and travis county.
lavaca county formed in 1842 from parts of colorado county, fayette county, gonzales county, jackson county and victoria county. was named la baca until 1846.
lee county formed in 1874 from parts of bastrop county, burleson county, fayette county and washington county.
leon county formed in 1846 from part of robertson county.
liberty county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule named libertad.
limestone county formed in 1846 from part of robertson county.
lipscomb county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
live oak county formed in 1856 from parts of nueces county and san patricio county.
llano county formed in 1856 from parts of bexar county and gillespie county.
loving county formed in 1887 from part of tom green county.
lubbock county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
lynn county formed in 1876 from part of garza county.

m.
madison county formed in 1853 from parts of grimes county, leon county and walker county.
marion county formed in 1860 from part of cass county.
martin county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
mason county formed in 1858 from part of gillespie county.
matagorda county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
maverick county formed in 1856 from kinney county.
mcculloch county formed in 1856 from part of bexar county.
mclennan county formed in 1850 from parts of limestone county and milam county.
mcmullen county formed in 1858 from parts of atascosa county, bexar county and live oak county.
medina county formed in 1848 from part of bexar county.
menard county formed in 1858 from part of bexar county.
midland county formed in 1885 from part of tom green county.
milam county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule named viesca until 1835.
mills county formed in 1887 from parts of brown county, comanche county, hamilton county, and lampasas county.
mitchell county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
montague county formed in 1857 from part of cooke county.
montgomery county formed in 1837 from part of washington county.
moore county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
morris county formed in 1875 from part of titus county.
motley county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.

n.
nacogdoches county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" and capital of a "departamento" under mexican rule.
navarro county formed in 1846 from a part of robertson county.
newton county formed in 1846 from part of jasper county.
nolan county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
nueces county formed in 1846 from part of san patricio county.

o.
ochiltree county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
oldham county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
orange county formed in 1852 from part of jefferson county.

p.
palo pinto county formed in 1856 from parts of bosque county and navarro county.
panola county formed in 1846 from parts of harrison county and shelby county.
parker county formed in 1855 from parts of bosque county and navarro county.
parmer county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
pecos county formed in 1871 from part of presidio county.
polk county formed in 1836 from part of the "municipio" of liberty. one of the original counties.
potter county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
presidio county formed in 1850 from part of bexar county.

r.
rains county formed in 1870 from parts of hopkins county, hunt county and wood county.
randall county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
reagan county formed in 1903 from part of tom green county.
real county formed in 1913 from parts of bandera county, edwards county and kerr county.
red river county formed in 1837 from part of the old red river district.
reeves county formed in 1883 from part of pecos county.
refugio county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
roberts county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
robertson county formed in 1837 from parts of bexar county, milam county and nacogdoches county.
rockwall county formed in 1873 from part of kaufman county.
runnels county formed in 1858 from parts of bexar county and travis county.
rusk county formed in 1843 from part of nacogdoches county.

s.
sabine county formed in 1837. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
san augustine county formed in 1837. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
san jacinto county formed in 1870 from parts of liberty county, montgomery county, polk county and walker county.
san patricio county formed in 1846 from part of refugio county.
san saba county formed in 1856 from part of bexar county.
schleicher county formed in 1887 from part of crockett county.
scurry county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
shackelford county formed in 1874 from jack county.
shelby county formed in 1836. was a "municipio" under mexican rule named tenehaw.
sherman county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
smith county formed in 1846 from part of nacogdoches county.
somervell county formed in 1875 from part of hood county.
starr county formed in 1848 from part of nueces county.
stephens county formed in 1858 from part of bosque county.
sterling county formed in 1891 from part of tom green county.
stonewall county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
sutton county formed in 1887 from part of crockett county.
swisher county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.

t.
tarrant county formed in 1849 from part of navarro county.
taylor county formed in 1858 from parts of bexar county and travis county.
terrell county formed in 1905 from part of pecos county.
terry county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
throckmorton county formed in 1858 from part of fannin county.
titus county formed in 1846 from part of bowie county.
tom green county formed in 1874 from part of bexar county.
travis county formed in 1840 from part of bastrop county.
trinity county formed in 1850 from part of houston county.
tyler county formed in 1846 from part of liberty county.

u.
upshur county formed in 1846 from part of harrison county.
upton county formed in 1887 from part of tom green county.
uvalde county formed in 1850 from part of bexar county.

v.
val verde county formed in 1885 from parts of crockett county, kinney county and pecos county.
van zandt county formed in 1848 from part of henderson county.
victoria county formed in 1836. one of the original counties. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.

w.
walker county formed in 1846 from part of montgomery county.
waller county formed in 1873 from parts of austin county and grimes county.
ward county formed in 1887 from part of tom green county.
washington county formed in 1836. was a "municipio" under mexican rule.
webb county formed in 1848 from part of nueces county.
wharton county formed in 1846 from parts of colorado county, jackson county and matagorda county.
wheeler county formed in 1876 from parts of bexar county and young county.
wichita county formed in 1858 from part of cooke county.
wilbarger county formed in 1858 from part of bexar county.
willacy county formed in 1911 from parts of cameron county and hidalgo county.
williamson county formed in 1848 from part of milam county.
wilson county formed in 1874 from parts of bexar county, guadalupe county and karnes county.
winkler county formed in 1887 from part of tom green county.
wise county formed in 1856 from part of cooke county.
wood county formed in 1850 from part of van zandt county.

y.
yoakum county formed in 1876 from part of bexar county.
young county formed in 1856 from parts of bosque county and fannin county.

z.
zapata county formed in 1858 from parts of starr county and webb county.
zavala county formed in 1858 from part of maverick county.

defunct counties.
 buchel county formed in 1887 from presidio county. annexed in 1897 to brewster county.
 dawson county (defunct) formed in 1858 in what is now kinney county and uvalde county and abolished in 1866. not to be confounded with dawson county;
 encinal county formed in 1856. abolished in 1899 and annexed to webb county.
 foley county formed in 1887 from presidio county. annexed in 1897 to brewster county.
 greer county formed in 1860. separated from texas by u.s. supreme court ruling in united states v. state of texas, .
 santa fe county formed in 1848 from lands ceded by mexico. it included the area of new mexico east of the rio grande. abolished under the compromise of 1850.
 wegefarth county formed in 1873 in the texas panhandle and abolished in 1876.
 worth county formed in 1850 from part of santa fe county. abolished under the compromise of 1850.





 
 









</doc>
<doc id="1275392" title="i can't be new" nonfiltered="62" processed="62" dbindex="62">

i can't be new is the sixth album by american singer/songwriter susan werner, released in 2004 (see 2004 in music).

track listing.
all songs written by susan werner, except where noted

"i can't be new" (jane paul, werner) - 2:54;
"late for the dance" - 3:36;
"seeing you again" - 2:41;
"i'm not sure" - 4:15;
"much at all" - 4:08;
"tall drink of water" - 3:01;
"you come through" - 3:13;
"no one needs to know" - 2:58;
"let's regret this in advance" - 2:45;
"don't i know you" - 3:05;
"philanthropy" - 2:53;
"stay on your side of town" - 2:54;
"maybe if i sang cole porter (coda)" - 1:46;

personnel.
susan werner - piano, rhythm guitar, ukulele, vocals, background vocals, wurlitzer, nylon string guitar;
eugene friesen - cello;
crit harmon - percussion, handclapping, snaps;
hatfield five - string quartet;
brad hatfield - piano, hammond organ, vibraphone, fender rhodes;
john lockwood - upright bass;
dave mattacks - drums;
billy novick - clarinet, woodwind;
stephen sadler - banjo, dobro, mandolin, ukulele, baritone ukulele;
mike turk - chromatic harmonica;

production.
producer: crit harmon;
engineer: crit harmon, john lupfer;
mixing: john lupfer;
mastering: paul angelli;
a&r: david wilkes;
digital editing: matt beaudoin;
arranger: billy novick;
product manager: dan o'leary;
design: jeff gilligan;
caricatures: adam belmares;





</doc>
<doc id="69017" title="military of bolivia" nonfiltered="63" processed="63" dbindex="63">


military branches of bolivia:
army (ej\e9rcito boliviano), navy (fuerza naval boliviana, includes marines), air force (fuerza a\e9rea boliviana), national police force (polic\eda nacional de bolivia)
military manpower - military age:19 years of age
military manpower - availability: males age 19-49:
1,949,267 (2000 est.)
military manpower - fit for military service:
males age 19-49:
1,269,228 (2000 est.)
military manpower - reaching military age annually:
males:
86,863 (2000 est.)
military expenditures - dollar figure:
$147 million (fy99)
military expenditures - percent of gdp:
1.8% (fy99)

 army .

the army maintains a small fleet of utility aircraft, primarily to support headquarters.


! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|aircraft
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|origin
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|type
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|versions
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|in service
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|notes
|-----
| beechcraft king air
| 
| staff transport
| beech 90  beech 200
| 1  1
| 
|-----
| cessna 206
| 
| utility
| 
| 4
| 
|-----
| cessna 421
| 
| staff transport
| cessna 421b
| 1
| 
|}

 air force .


! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|aircraft
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|origin
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|type
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|versions
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|in service
! style="text-align: left; background: #aacccc;"|notes
|-----
| a\e9rospatiale lama
| 
| utility helicopter
| sa 315b
| 2
| 
|-----
| aerotec a-132
| 
| trainer
| a-132b  t-23
| 2  5
| 
|-----
| beechcraft baron
| 
| utility
| 55
| 2
| 
|-----
| beechcraft bonanza
| 
| utility
| v35
| 2
| 
|-----
| beechcraft king air
| 
| staff transport
| super king air 200
| 4
| 
|-----
| beechcraft t-34 mentor
| 
| trainer
| fma t-34b
| 21
| 
|-----
| bell 205
| 
| utility helicopter
| uh-1h
| 12
| 
|-----
| bell 212
| 
| utility helicopter
| 
| 1
| 
|-----
| canadair t-33
| 
| attack
| at-33a
| 4
| 
|-----
| casa c-212
| 
| transport
| 
| 1
| 
|-----
| cessna 152
| 
| utility
| 
| 10
| 
|-----
| cessna 172
| 
| utility
| 172k
| 2
| 
|-----
| cessna 185
| 
| utility
| 
| 2
| 
|-----
| cessna 206
| 
| utility
| 
| 11
| 
|-----
| cessna 210
| 
| utility
| 
| 4
| 
|-----
| cessna 310
| 
| utility
| 
| 1
| 
|-----
| cessna 402
| 
| utility
| 402b
| 1
| 
|-----
| cessna 421
| 
| utility
| 421b
| 1
| 
|-----
| convair 580
| 
| transport
| 
| 2
| 
|-----
| douglas dc-3
| 
| transport
| basler turbo 67
| 1
| 
|-----
| fokker f27
| 
| transport
| f27-400m
| 4
| 
|-----
| lancair 320
| 
| trainer
| 
| 1
| 
|-----
| learjet 25
| 
| vip transport
| 25b  25d
| 1  1
| 
|-----
| lockheed c-130 hercules
| 
| transport
| total  c-130a  c-130b  c-130h
| 6  2  3  1
| 
|-----
| md helicopters md 500
| 
| utility helicopter
| 500m
| 10
| 
|-----
| neiva t-25 universal
| 
| trainer
| 
| 6
| 
|-----
| pilatus pc-7
| 
| trainer
| 
| 9
| 
|-----
| piper pa-34
| 
| utility
| 
| 2
| 
|-----
| rockwell sabreliner
| 
| vip transport
| sabreliner 60
| 1
| 
|}

 navy .
see full article:  bolivian naval force.;

 references .

this article was adapted from the cia world factbook 2000.








</doc>
<doc id="6407041" title="sonatorrek" nonfiltered="64" processed="64" dbindex="64">
sonatorrek ("loss of sons") is a skaldic poem in 25 stanzas by egill skallagr\edmsson (ca. 910 990), inspired by the death of his two sons who drowned during a storm. it is preserved in the egilssaga.

external links.
http://is.wikisource.org/wiki/sonatorrek;
http://www.skolavefurinn.is/lok/almennt/ljodskald_man/egill_skallagrimsson/ljod/sonatorrek/sonatorrek_ljod.htm;






</doc>
<doc id="520975" title="ralph bellamy" nonfiltered="65" processed="65" dbindex="65">


ralph rexford bellamy (june 17, 1904   november 29, 1991) was a tony award-winning american actor with a career spanning sixty-two years. 

bellamy was born in chicago, illinois. he began his acting career on stage, and by 1927 owned his own theatre company. in 1931 he made his film debut and worked constantly throughout the thirties, establishing himself as a capable supporting actor.  bellamy received the lead role in the 1936 film straight from the shoulder.  he then received an academy award nomination for best supporting actor for his role in the awful truth (1937) opposite irene dunne and cary grant and played a similar part (the naive, aw-shucks boyfriend competing with the sophisticated light-comedy grant character) in his girl friday (1940). he portrayed detective ellery queen in a few films during the forties, but as his film career had not progressed, he returned to the stage, where he continued to perform throughout the fifties.

highly regarded within the industry, he served four years as president of actor's equity.

bellamy was a regular panelist on the television game show to tell the truth during its initial run.

on broadway he appeared in one of his most famous roles, as franklin delano roosevelt in sunrise at campobello. he later starred in the 1960 film version. 

on film, he also starred in rosemary's baby (1968) as a sweet talking but devilish physician, before turning to television during the seventies.  an emmy award nomination for the mini-series the winds of war (1983), in which bellamy reprised his sunrise at campobello role of franklin roosevelt, and a role as a conniving billionaire alongside don ameche in trading places (also 1983) brought him back into the limelight.

in 1984 he was presented with a life achievement award from the screen actors guild, and in 1987 received an honorary academy award "for his unique artistry and his distinguished service to the profession of acting."

among his later roles was a memorable appearance as a once-brilliant but incresingly forgetful lawyer sadly skewered by the jimmy smits character on an episode of l.a. law.

he continued working regularly and gave his final performance in pretty woman (1990).

he died as a result of a lung ailment in santa monica, california at the age of 87, and was buried in forest lawn - hollywood hills cemetery in los angeles.

bellamy has a star on the hollywood walk of fame at 6542 hollywood boulevard.

filmography.
the secret six (1931);
the magnificent lie (1931);
west of broadway (1931);
surrender (1931);
forbidden (1932);
disorderly conduct (1932);
young america (1932);
the woman in room 13 (1932);
rebecca of sunnybrook farm (1932);
almost married (1932);
wild girl (1932);
airmail (1932);
second hand wife (1933);
parole girl (1933);
below the sea (1933);
destination unknown (1933);
picture snatcher (1933);
the narrow corner (1933);
flying devils (1933);
blind adventure (1933);
headline shooter (1933);
ace of aces (1933);
ever in my heart (1933);
before midnight (1933);
spitfire (1934);
once to every woman (1934);
this man is mine (1934);
crime of helen stanley (1934);
one is guilty (1934);
girl in danger (1934);
the ghost of frankenstein (1942);
rosemary's baby (1968);
trading places (1983);
disorderlies (1987);
coming to america (1988);
pretty woman (1990);

external links.
 ;



















</doc>
<doc id="489752" title="genevi\e8ve bujold" nonfiltered="66" processed="66" dbindex="66">
genevi\e8ve bujold (born july 1, 1942 in montreal, quebec) is a canadian actress.

related to 19th century quebec strongman/weightlifter louis cyr, bujold was raised by strict roman catholic french-canadian parents who sent her to a convent school for her full twelve years of education. she disliked the school and its strict discipline, and eventually left it to pursue an acting career.

dramatically trained at montreal's conservatory of dramatic art, she got her big break while on tour with a theatrical company in paris, france when french director alain resnais selected her for a role opposite yves montand in la guerre est finie (1966). this led to her staying in france for a time where she made more films with noted french directors such as louis malle.

bujold appeared in a variety of film roles for canadian and u.s. television earning a 1967 emmy award nomination for her performance as joan of arc in an nbc "hallmark hall of fame" presentation. that year, she married canadian film director paul almond, who directed her in isabel (1968), and act of the heart (1970), opposite donald sutherland. they had a son matthew in 1968 and were divorced in 1972. also in 1968, she won the prix suzanne bianchetti as the most promising young actress in french film.

in 1969, she starred opposite richard burton in the film, anne of the thousand days. for her powerful performance, she won the golden globe award for best actress in a motion-picture drama as well as a nomination for the academy award for best actress.

her considerable acting skills had the media touting her to become one of the brightest stars but bujold's temperament led to run-ins with her employer universal studios and she walked away from her contract, resulting in a lawsuit (which was settled when she agreed to appear in the 1974 disaster film earthquake). in the ensuing years she gave many sterling performances (in films such as the trojan women (1971, opposite katharine hepburn and vanessa redgrave), kamouraska (1973), brian de palma's obsession (1976), alex and the gypsy (1976, opposite jack lemmon), the medical thriller coma (1978, opposite michael douglas), choose me (1984, directed by alan rudolph) and tightrope (1984, directed by clint eastwood), but never reached the heights of movie stardom which many believed to be her due. she won the best actress in a leading role genie award for murder by decree (1979).

in 1994, she signed on to play the lead character, captain nicole janeway, in the american television series star trek: voyager. however she dropped out after filming just a few scenes of the series' first episode, stating that a tv series work schedule was too demanding. kate mulgrew replaced her and the character's name was changed to kathryn janeway.

bujold   who spent several years away from her acting career after giving birth to a second son in 1980 (she re-emerged in the 1984 alan rudolph film choose me)   continues to work in film, primarily with independent production companies.

filmography.
television.
 les belles histoires des pays-d'en-haut (1956) ;
 ti-jean caribou (1963);
 mistress of paradise (1981) ;
 red earth, white earth (1989);
 les noces de papier (1989) ;

cinema.
 amanita pestilens (1963);
 la fleur de l'\e2ge, ou les adolescentes (1964);
 la terre \e0 boire (1964);
 la fin des \e9t\e9s (1964);
 genevi\e8ve (1965);
 la guerre est finie (1966);
 le roi de c\bdur (1966);
 entre la mer et l'eau douce (1967);
 the thief of paris (1967) (le voleur);
 isabel (1968);
 anne of the thousand days (1969);
 act of the heart (1970);
 the trojan women (1971);
 journey (1972);
 kamouraska (1973);
 antigone (1974);
 earthquake (1974);
 l'incorrigible (1975);
 swashbuckler (1976);
 obsession (1976);
 alex & the gypsy (1976);
 un autre homme, une autre chance (1977);
 coma (1978);
 murder by decree (1979);
 the last flight of noah's ark (1980);
 final assignment (1980);
 monsignor (1982);
 tightrope (1984);
 choose me (1984);
 trouble in mind (1985);
 the moderns (1988);
 dead ringers (1988);
 false identity (1990);
 rue du bac (1991);
 the dance goes on (1992);
 oh, what a night (1992);
 an ambush of ghosts (1993);
 mon amie max (1994);
 the adventures of pinocchio (1996);
 dead innocent (1996);
 the house of yes (1997);
 last night (1998);
 eye of the beholder (1999);
 alex in wonder (2001);
 jericho mansions (2003);
 finding home (2003);

external links.
;
;

 

a fansite with galleries and biography: http://www.bujold.co.uk

















</doc>
<doc id="6983089" title="the virgin of zesh & the tower of zanid" nonfiltered="67" processed="67" dbindex="67">


the virgin of zesh & the tower of zanid is a 1982 collection of two science fiction novels by l. sprague de camp. both works are part of his viagens interplanetarias series and of its subseries of stories set on the fictional planet krishna. the collection was first published in paperback by ace books in 1982. it was issued as the fourth volume of the standard edition of the krishna novels, and its component parts were at the time of publication the fourth and fifth krishna novels, chronologically. afterwards, publication of the prisoner of zhamanak (1982) and the bones of zora (1983) made them the fifth and seventh krishna novels, respectively.


contents:
the virgin of zesh;
the tower of zanid;

 setting .
the planet krishna is de camp's premier creation in the sword and planet genre, representing both a tribute to the barsoom novels of edgar rice burroughs and an attempt to "get it right", reconstructing the concept logically, without what he regarded as burroughs' biological and technological absurdities.

 trivia .
the titles of all of de camp's "krishna" novels have a "z" in them, a practice he claimed to have devised to keep track of them. short stories in the series do not follow the practice, nor do viagens interplanetarias works not set on krishna.












</doc>
<doc id="1248931" title="barry pepper" nonfiltered="68" processed="68" dbindex="68">
barry robert pepper (born april 4, 1970 in campbell river, british columbia) is a canadian-born actor.

he is best known for his role as a religious sniper in saving private ryan, as journalist joseph l. galloway in we were soldiers,  his leading role in the movie battlefield earth, his depiction of roger maris in billy crystal's hbo film 61*, and as dale earnhardt in the espn movie .

trivia.
 has two older brothers, alex and doug.
 at a young age, he spent three years sailing with his family in the ship they built called "the moonlighter," traveling to places such as fiji and new zealand;
  he graduated in 1988 from georges p. vanier secondary school in courtenay, british columbia ;
 attended camosun college's visual arts program in victoria, b.c.
 landed his first role in the canadian tv show madison (1993).
 has one daughter named annaliese with wife cindy.
 appeared in the jagged edge music video, "goodbye.";
 originally was going to play glen odekirk in the movie, the aviator, but had to drop out due to scheduling conflicts.
 inspired several fansites, including meet barry pepper, created in 1998 by jayne childers, a fan from virginia.  childers was personally contacted on more than one occasion by barry pepper, who also passed information and answers to questions from fans to the site via his brother, doug.  while the site remained an unofficial one, pepper's tacit endorsement and willingness to communicate with his fans highlighted the respect he had for them.  the site, last located at www.pepperfans.com, went offline in 2005.
 only a year after filming saving private ryan he starred alongside tom hanks again in the green mile to play dean stanton.
 in late 2006, he was accidentally bitten by a freshwater dolphin while trying to feed it.

partial filmography.
 titanic (tv movie) (1996) - assistant marconi wireless operator harold bride;
 firestorm (1998) - packer;
 enemy of the state (1998) - detective david pratt;
 saving private ryan (1998) - private daniel jackson (sniper);
 the green mile (1999) - dean stanton;
 battlefield earth (2000) - jonnie goodboy tyler;
 we all fall down (2000) - john;
 61* (2001) - roger maris;
 knockaround guys (2001) - matty demaret;
 we were soldiers (2002) - joe galloway;
 25th hour (2002) - frank slaughtery;
 the snow walker (2003) -  charlie halliday;
  (tv movie) (2004) - dale earnhardt;
 ripley under ground (2005) - tom ripley;
 the three burials of melquiades estrada (2006) - mike norton;
 flags of our fathers (film) (2006) plays michael strank.
 unknown (2006) - rancher shirt;

external link.
 ;
 efilmcritic.com interview with barry pepper about "flags of our fathers";


















</doc>
<doc id="4717457" title="liljana bishop" nonfiltered="69" processed="69" dbindex="69">

liljana 'lil' bishop (n\e9e ristic) was a fictional character in the australian soap opera neighbours, played by marcella russo. she first appeared in 2003 and remained in the show until her presumed death in 2005 following the neighbours plane crash.
 
of serbian descent, lilijana grew up under the dominant shadow of her mother svetlanka ristic and lived in perth, western australia, surrounded by her family. however, her parents were less than pleased when she married australian born david bishop aged only 19, but their marriage seemed to be a success and the two had a daughter named serena.

after david was offered a job in erinsborough the whole family moved where they thought they would be living in their newly built house in eden hills. yet having invested all their savings into a business that appeared to have gone bust david almost bankrupt the family and instead of furthering her education, lil was forced to get a job as a receptionist for karl kennedy. 

things gradually got worse for the family after serena was involved with a paedophile, chris cousens, whom lil promptly slapped, and david's job meant he was away a lot. the bishop family's lot was even worse when wicked svetlanka turned up and after a heated argument revealed that lil had been pregnant and that was why she married david. she had found herself pregnant to ivan petrovich, a worker at the family vineyard. ivan fled the scene, so when david came along to help the family with their accounts, lil quickly saw him as a potential father for her child. but lil was led to believe that the child was stillborn, and she never even saw it for 19 years. 

meanwhile, serena had made friends with a young serbian friend named luka, her grandmother's godson, and the two started a relationship.  however, she was at the time unaware that luka was her long lost half-brother, whom svetlanka had kept away from the rest of her family for 19 years.

lil suffered from acute liver failure and needed part of a family member's liver to survive.  it was revealed that luka would be able to save her. upon returning to good health, svetlanka was promptly thrown out by her daughter while luka later decided to return to his adoptive parents. it was then that lil was offered a job with paul robinson as manager of the helen daniels trust.

yet the marriage soured after david became obsessed with his work and lil had an affair with paul. only when paul was revealed to be plottong to destroy erinsborough did lil finally return to her husband.

as the family's luck was finally starting to get better they all boarded a plane to tasmania to celebrate the re-opening of lassiters' by going to a casino and hotel. before the plane was boarded, a person, later revealed to be paul's son, robert, planted a bomb on the plane that exploded in flight.  david, lilijana and serena hugged one another as the plane crashed into the bass strait.  david was confirmed dead, but lil and serena's bodies were not found.

at her and serena's memorial service (only david's body was recovered) susan smith said the following:

"lil had a spectacularly short fuse, which was matched only by her sense of humour. but i think it was her passionate love affair with life that made her such  such a wonderful friend. that and her cooking. but always to lil, the most important thing was family. i hope they re together now and i hope they remain in peace forever"

she appeared on the show between 2003 and 2005. the bishop family were axed, which proved most unpopular with fans and the actor who played david's father harold bishop, ian smith.

 trivia .

lilijana slapped two people on the show, both in defense of her daughter, carmella cammenetti and chris cousens.

she was able to read coffee grounds, and before they left for the tragic plane journey she informed david that it looked as though he had no future, as all the grounds were gone. ;

she usually called harold 'tata', a common eastern european greeting for an older male relative.

lil was best friends with susan and lyn, but following her death neither woman seemed particualry distraught.

her mother svetlanka was apparently too upset to go to the memorial service and was apparently ill in bed and on medication.

luka dokic, lil's long-lost-son who she had recently reunited with did not come to her funeral;

 family tree .
miroslav ristic (father), married to svetlanka ristic (mother) ;
liljana ristic, had a relationship with ivan petrovich (deceased),married to david bishop (deceased);
serena bishop (daughter) (deceased);
luka dokic (son);
zoran ristic (brother);





</doc>
<doc id="1155826" title="penny hedge" nonfiltered="70" processed="70" dbindex="70">
the penny hedge legend dates back to 1159. it is a legend and tradition in the english town of whitby in yorkshire.

the abbot of whitby imposed a penance on three hunters, and on their descendants for all time, for murdering a hermit at eskdaleside.

on the shore, they had to construct a short hedge from stakes woven together. the instructions stipulated that a knife of a penny price is to be used.

the ceremony is still performed in whitby every year on the eve of ascension day.

external links.
penny hedge in whitby local attractions;



</doc>
<doc id="1278543" title="henry cort" nonfiltered="71" processed="71" dbindex="71">
henry cort (1740   1800) was an english ironmaster.  during the industrial revolution in england, cort began refining iron from pig iron to wrought iron using innovative production systems. in 1782 he patented the puddling process for refining iron ore.  the the henry cort community college bears his name, located in the large town of fareham, south of funtley.  

early life.
the son of a builder, cort was born in lancaster in 1740. as a young man, he worked as a royal navy agent in london, where his interest in the poor quality of english iron against overseas supplies developed, leading to his inventions that greatly increased the quality of iron production.  he left his job as an agent in 1775.  his 1768 marriage to elizabeth heysham had connected him to the attwick family of gosport, and to elizabeth's uncle, william attwick.  cort joined attwick in the family iron business, living and working in gosport.

commerce, innovation, and ruin.
with an increase in demand for iron goods from the royal navy, the ironworking enterprise in middle street, gosport flourished, but was severely strained by a 1779 contract for barrel hoops.  to cope with an unexpectedly high demand, and beset by the high cost of swedish iron, cort set up an iron works in fontley, hampshire.  this was a rolling mill, and here he developed his ideas, leading to patents in 1783 for the steam-powered grooved rolling process and 1784 for his balling or pudding furnace, allowing the manufacture of crude, standardized shapes.  his work built on the existing ideas of the cranege brothers and their reverberatory furnace (where the heat is applied from above, rather than forced air from below) and peter onions' puddling process where the iron is stirred to separate out impurities and extract the higher quality wrought iron.  the "puddler" extracts a mass of iron from the furnace using a rabbling bar.  the extracted ball of metal is then processed into a shingle by a shingling hammer, after which it is rolled in a rolling mill.  

his partnership in the fontley mill was with samuel jellicoe (son of adam jellicoe, who had important navy connections).  this eventually turned out very badly, but initially the elder jellicoe financed cort's experimentation with large sums and a wharf at gosport was purchased.  on adam jellicoe's death (1789), he was in debt himself, and cort's debts (guaranteed by his patents) to jellicoe were called in to settle the estate.  because of the nature of the business, which was now vital to the supply of iron to the navy, the patents were taken over by the government.  the younger jellicoe was given sole control of the mill and wharf.  royalties on the patents were not recovered (which might have cleared cort's debts) and so cort's impoverishment was settled.  

he married twice.  a short-lived marriage to elizabeth brown was succeeded by his marriage in 1768 to elizabeth heysham, with whom he had a large family.  however, his business ventures did not bring him wealth, even though vast numbers of the furnaces that he developed were eventually used (reportedly 8,200 by 1820).  he was awarded a government pension after leaving his firm, but died a ruined man, and was buried in hampstead churchyard.  


further reading.
r. a. mott (ed. p. singer), henry cort: the great finer (the metals society, london 1983);

external links.
biography from http://www.tilthammer.com/;
biography;
biography;
biography  dedicated website following 5 years of research;













</doc>
<doc id="2537855" title="bruce cordell" nonfiltered="72" processed="72" dbindex="72">
bruce robert cordell (born 1968) is an american author of roleplaying games and fantasy novels. he is the winner of the origins award as well as several ennies. he lives in seattle with his wife and household of pets.

biographical timeline.
1968 - born in watertown, south dakota;
1992 - received bachelor of science in biology from university of colorado at boulder, hired as a research associate by nexstar (since bought out by gilead);
1995 - hired by tsr, inc. (originally tactical studies rules), the dungeons & dragons company, relocated to lake geneva, wisconsin ;
1997 - hired by wizards of the coast, relocated to seattle;

roleplaying work.
bruce cordell's rpg work includes many scenarios and sourcebooks; many of which are directly or indirectly concerned with monsters of a lovecraftian bent (particularly mind flayers and psionics.

cordell frequently references certain characters, ideas, and organizations repeatedly in his rpg works, creating a personal continuity between various supplements. for example, the illithiad references the character of strom wakeman and the organization known as the arcane order. wakeman was quoted occasionally in planescape books by cordell, such as a guide to the ethereal plane, and was instrumental to the course of events in the adventure dawn of the overmind (books which were themselves also connected through a phenomenon called an ether gap). meanwhile, the arcane order returned in tome and blood as a detailed organization and the basis of a prestige class.

most of cordell's work for malhavoc press has followed similar patterns, creating a sort of story arc across when the sky falls, if thoughts could kill, and hyperconscious, connected by the god-like dark plea and, to a lesser extent, the kureshim race. in an interview with monte cook, cordell himself described his style as including "subtle story threads that connect seemingly unrelated projects".

adventures.
2nd edition ad&d.
 gates of firestorm peak (1996);
 evil tide (1997);
 night of the shark (1997);
 sea of blood (1998);
 return to the tomb of horrors (1998);
 a darkness gathering (1998);
 masters of eternal night (1998);
 dawn of the overmind (1998);
 return to white plume mountain (1999);
 die vecna die! (with steve miller, 2000);
 reverse dungeon (with john d. rateliff, 2000);

3rd edition d&d.
 the sunless citadel (2000);
 heart of nightfang spire (2001);
 bastion of broken souls (2002);

sourcebooks.
2nd edition ad&d.
 college of wizardry (1998);
 dungeon builder's guidebook (1998);
 bastion of faith (1999);
 the illithiad (1998);

3rd edition d&d.
 enemies and allies (2001);
 psionics handbook (2001);
 epic level handbook ;
 tome and blood (2001);
 expanded psionics handbook (2004);

third-party d20 system sourcebooks
 if thoughts could kill (malhavoc press, 2002);
 hyperconscious (malhavoc press, 2004);

bruce has written nearly 40 game products: a list of which can be found externally here: amazon list of credits

novels.

darkvision (forgotten realms novel, #3 in series the wizards), 2006

lady of poison (forgotten realms novel, #1 in series the priests), 2005

oath of nerull (writing as t. h. lain), 2004

"not all that tempts", dragon's return, malhavoc press, 2005

"hollows of the heart", children of the rune, malhavoc press, 2004

references.


external links.

 bruce cordell's web site and blog;
 amazon list of credits;
 pen & paper listing for bruce cordell;










</doc>
<doc id="1534301" title="rolling pin" nonfiltered="73" processed="73" dbindex="73">


a rolling pin is a cylindrical food preparation utensil used to shape and flatten dough. two styles of rolling pins are found; roller and rods. roller types consists of a thick cylindrical roller with small handles at each end; rod type rolling pins are usually thin tapered batons. rolling pins of different styles and materials offer advantages over another, as they are used for different tasks in cooking and baking.

types of rolling pins.
rod: thin rods typically made of wood around 2-3 cm in diameter. they are used by rolling the rod across the dough using one's palm. the pins may be tapered at one or both ends for more pivot control in certain tasks such as making small jiaozi skins or pie shells. most east asian or french style rolling pins, and the turkish oklava are rod style.
roller: consists of a thick heavy roller made of a variety of materials around 7-10 cm in diameter with thinner handles which extend through the roller. they are used by grasping the handles and pushing the pin across the dough. many western rolling pins are roller types.

material.
rolling pins come in a variety of sizes, shapes and materials including glass, wood, stainless steel, marble, and plastic. some are hollow and are able to be filled with cold or warm water to better roll a desired food. marble rolling pins are often cooled in a refrigerator for maintaining a cold dough while making puff pastry.

in popular culture.
rolling pins are the stereotypical weapon of angry housewives and are frequently employed in cartoons as an instrument for inflicting cranial injury. according to some cookbooks, heavy wooden roller type rolling pins are best used on kitchen helpers when frustrated, and not on dough.

see also.
 some special dice are also denoted rolling pins.

references.


















</doc>
<doc id="6531932" title="adrian mccoubrey" nonfiltered="74" processed="74" dbindex="74">
adrian mccoubrey (born april 3, 1980) is an irish cricketer. he is a right-handed batsman and a right-arm medium-fast bowler. he has represented ireland since 1999, and between 2002 and 2004 was a player for essex.

mccoubrey participated in the 2001 and 2005 icc trophy tournaments. he is a strong medium-fast bowler and a tailending batsman for his country.

external links.
adrian mccoubrey at cricket archive;







</doc>
<doc id="325425" title="huang zhong" nonfiltered="75" processed="75" dbindex="75">



huang zhong (148   220) was a leading military general of the kingdom of shu during the late eastern han dynasty and three kingdoms period in ancient china. he was most noted for his victory in the battle of mount dingjun, in which his force routed that of xiahou yuan, who was slain in the battle. for his merits, huang zhong was ranked among the five leading generals of shu, later popularized as the five tiger generals.

huang zhong had always been portrayed in popular literature and arts as an elderly general with youthful vigor and constitution. even now, the spirit to strive for excellence despite old age is often attributed to him. however, little was documented about him in historical records and it is impossible to tell how old he was when he was named one of the five tiger generals.

life.

born in nanyang commandery (present day nanyang, henan), huang zhong initially served a military post under liu biao, governor of jingzhou (  ). after liu biao's death in 208, the powerful warlord cao cao conquered jingzhou and huang zhong continued his service under this new lord of the land, specifically in changsha under the city governor han xuan (  ).

following cao cao's defeat at the battle of red cliffs in the same year, liu bei was gradually taking over the various commanderies in southern jingzhou, including changsha. huang zhong then began his service under liu bei. he performed extremely well in liu bei's campaign to gain yizhou (  ) from 212 to 214, his bravery in battles unmatched by any. after yizhou was taken, huang zhong was promoted to general who campaigns against rebels (    ).

in 217, liu bei led a force upon hanzhong, which was under the control of cao cao. his force met with resistance led by xiahou yuan at yangping pass (   ). the confrontation dragged on for more than a year until one night, liu bei set fire to the barbed fence around xiahou yuan's camp at the foot of mount dingjun (   ). alarmed by the attack, xiahou yuan sent zhang he to defend the eastern corner of the camp, while he guarded the south. liu bei's main force pressed against zhang he, outmatching the latter. xiahou yuan had to dispatch a fraction of his own troops to zhang he's rescue.

accompanied by thundering drums, the division led by huang zhong then descended upon xiahou yuan's dwindling force. the battle became a rout and xiahou yuan himself was killed in battle. the victory at mount dingjun was a major stepping stone to the later conquest of hanzhong.

in 219, liu bei proclaimed himself king of hanzhong and effectively the first emperor of the kingdom of shu. he then promoted huang zhong to general of the rear (   ), placing the latter on the same level as four other veteran generals: guan yu, zhang fei, ma chao and zhao yun. however, huang zhong died in the next year, to an unspecified cause. he was given the posthumous title of marquis gang, literally meaning the unyielding marquis.

huang zhong in romance of the three kingdoms.

the romance of the three kingdoms, a historical novel by luo guanzhong, was a romanticization of the events that occurred before and during the three kingdoms period. in the novel, huang zhong was portrayed as an aged but extremely talented warrior, excelling especially in archery. he was also credited with the slaying of xiahou yuan, a prominent general of the kingdom of wei, in the battle of mount dingjun, though in reality the latter was most probably killed in the rush of enemy soldiers.

battle of mount dingjun.


in chapter 71, xiahou yuan stationed his troops on mount dingjun and effectively resisted the advance of huang zhong. under the council of advisor fa zheng, huang zhong occupied mount tiandang (   ), a taller peak that lied to the west of mount dingjun. from this new vantage point huang zhong had an excellent view of xiahou yuan's troop movements.

xiahou yuan could not tolerate his enemy spying on him and insisted on attacking mount tiandang. setting out his troops to surround mount tiandang, xiahou yuan rode forth and challenged his enemy to battle. however, huang zhong kept his troops back and refused to engage.

in the afternoon, fa zheng saw from his lookout post near the peak that xiahou yuan's troops had grown tired and dispirited. he then hoisted a red flag, signalling huang zhong to attack. amid deafening drums and war horns, the shu troops rushed downhill with huang zhong galloping in the forefront. before he could react, xiahou yuan was cleft in two below his shoulders by huang zhong. with their commander dead, the wei soldiers were easily defeated and mount dingjun was felled.

battle outside luocheng.
prior to the battle of mount dingjun, before liu bei had even gained yizhou (  ), luo guanzhong created a fictional battle in which huang zhong competed with his colleague wei yan for credits. in chapter 62, liu bei's main force was approaching luocheng (  ), a strategic city which would allow further advances on chengdu, capital of yizhou.

the enemy had established two camps sixty li outside the city, one under ling bao (  ) and the other under deng xian (  ). huang zhong had volunteered to lead a vanguard force to vanquish both camps, which liu bei approved, when wei yan voiced his doubts over the aged huang zhong's physical ability. this infuriated huang zhong, who challenged wei yan to a duel. to appease both, liu bei then ordered huang zhong to attack ling bao and wei yan to strike deng xian.

wanting all credits for himself, wei yan set out his troops early next morning and headed for ling bao's camp instead. however, ling bao was ready for the attack and used a flanking tactic on the enemy. wei yan's troops, exhausted after a long march, were overpowered and began to retreat. wei yan's horse stumbled, throwing its rider off. a force led by deng xian had by then arrived, and its commander came straight for wei yan with his spear held forth.

just then, an arrow knocked deng xian off in mid-gallop. so it was that huang zhong had come to the rescue. having slain the fallen deng xian, huang zhong then went for ling bao, brandishing his sword. ling bao was no match for his ferocious foe and had to retreat. however, his camp was already taken over by liu bei's main force. in his frantic attempt to find an escape, ling bao was ambushed and captured by wei yan, who had regrouped his force in a bid to redeem himself. for the victory, huang zhong was heavily rewarded while wei yan was pardoned for his disobedience.

death.
the events leading up to huang zhong's death in chapter 83 were probably fictitious as well. luo guangzhong wrote that in 222, huang zhong followed liu bei on a campaign against the kingdom of wu. one day, hearing that liu bei commented on aged and incapable generals, huang zhong mounted his horse and rode straight to the forward camp.

just at this time, an enemy vanguard force had arrived. huang zhong insisted on meeting the enemies. holding his sword ready, the old general challenged for a duel with the enemy commander pan zhang (  ). pan zhang sent out his aide shi ji (  ), who was slain by huang zhong within three bouts.

brandishing the late guan yu's green dragon crescent blade, pan zhang then rode forward to meet huang zhong. neither could establish a clear advantage but huang zhong was fighting with all his might. not expecting to win the battle, pan zhang then retreated.

the next day, pan zhang rode out to issue challenge for another duel, which huang zhong eagerly took up. within bouts, however, pan zhang turned to escape. huang zhong gave pursuit without hesitation. it was in fact a plot by the enemy, who had ambushed in wait for huang zhong. running right into the trap, huang zhong was struck beneath the collar bone by an arrow fired by ma zhong (  ) and almost fell off his horse.

fortunately, a friendly force led by guan xing and zhang bao (  ) came to the rescue and brought back huang zhong. liu bei came personally to the forward camp to see the injured general, but huang zhong was too old and weak to survive the arrow wound. he died the same night in camp, at the age of seventy-five.

modern references.

huang zhong is a playable character in the koei video game series dynasty warriors.  huang is depicted as a wise and honourable elderly man whom younger officers, such as zhao yun, respect and look to for guidance. always eager to prove to friend and foe alike that he is still a very capable officer and combatant.  his weapon of choice is a large and elaborate saber he calls the "oracle sword," although his prowess with a bow features largely into his cinematic sequences and conversations.

the battle of mt. ding jun is huang's shining moment.  leading his unit into battle against the defending cao wei army, huang personally slays xiahou yuan in almost every release in which he appears.  he will usually compliment xiahou's skill, but will refuse to spare his life, due to the level of arrogance and disdain with which he treats his opposition.  although his relationship with other officers is not as strong as other characters, he is shown to have ties to wei yan, as the two served together before entering liu bei's service. he is also shown to have a good relationship with yan yan, who constantly serves as huang's second-in-command. apart from his long, grey beard, huang is usually depicted as appearing youthful for his age.  he generally wears light armour consisting  of steel and leather over cloth, commonly worn by cavalry archers and other frontline fighters who rely on agility and swift movement during battle.  this is sometimes accompanied by flowing, green and gold robes to add a unique style to his appearance.

references.
;
;
;

see also.
three kingdoms;
personages of the three kingdoms;
chronicles of the three kingdoms;
romance of the three kingdoms;















</doc>
<doc id="6458802" title="gunning s. bedford" nonfiltered="76" processed="76" dbindex="76">
gunning s. bedford (1806 - 5 september 1870) was a medical writer, teacher and founder of the united states' first obstetrical clinic for those too poor to pay a doctor's fee.

dr. bedford graduated in 1825 at mount saint mary's university (then mount saint mary's college), emmitsburg, maryland, and took his medical degree from rutgers college. he spent two years studying abroard and in 1833 became professor of obstetrics in charleston medical college. after this he became a professor in the albany medical college. 

he later founded the university medical college in which he established an obstetrical clinic for those too poor to afford a doctor which was the first of in the united states.  he retired from teaching for health reasons in 1862 and he died in 1870. his funeral panegyric was preached by archbishop john mccloskey a fellow student at mount st. mary's. 

two books written by him, "diseases of women" and "practice of obstetrics" went through a number of editions, were translated into french and german and adopted as textbooks in american schools. 

he was the nephew of gunning bedford one of the framers of the united states constitution and aide-de-camp to general washington. 

references.






</doc>
<doc id="3701321" title="hmy osborne" nonfiltered="77" processed="77" dbindex="77">
hmy osborne was a royal yacht of the royal navy of the united kingdom. she was launched 1868 and replaced the yacht of the same name formerly known as the hmy victoria and albert.

she displaced 1,850 tons, and was used on the milk run to osborne house on the isle of wight.





</doc>
<doc id="21900" title="list of nato reporting names for transport aircraft" nonfiltered="78" processed="78" dbindex="78">
nato reporting name/ascc names for transport aircraft, with soviet designations, sorted by reporting name:

 "cab" lisunov li-2;
 "camber" ilyushin il-86;
 "camel" tupolev tu-104;
 "camp" antonov an-8;
 "candid" ilyushin il-76;
 "careless" tupolev tu-154;
 "cart" tupolev tu-70;
 "cash" antonov an-28;
 "cat" antonov an-10;
 "charger" tupolev tu-144;
 "clam" ilyushin il-18;
 "clank" antonov an-30;
 "classic" ilyushin il-62;
 "cleat" tupolev tu-114;
 "cline" antonov an-32;
 "clobber" yakovlev yak-42;
 "clod" antonov an-14;
 "coach" ilyushin il-12;
 "coaler" antonov an-72/an-74;
 "cock" antonov an-22;
 "codling" yakovlev yak-40;
 "coke" antonov an-24;
 "colt" antonov an-2;
 "condor" antonov an-124;
 "cooker" tupolev tu-110;
 "cookpot" tupolev tu-124;
 "coot" ilyushin il-20/il-22;
 "cork" yakovlev yak-16;
 "cossack" antonov an-225;
 "crate" ilyushin il-14;
 "creek" yakovlev yak-12;
 "crib" yakovlev yak-8;
 "crow" yakovlev yak-12;
 "crusty" tupolev tu-134;
 "cub" antonov an-12;
 "cuff" beriev be-30/be-32;
 "curl" antonov an-26;


nato reporting name/ascc names for transport aircraft, with soviet designations, sorted by soviet designation:

 antonov an-2 "colt";
 antonov an-8 "camp";
 antonov an-10 "cat";
 antonov an-12 "cub";
 antonov an-14 "clod";
 antonov an-22 "cock";
 antonov an-24 "coke";
 antonov an-26 "curl";
 antonov an-28 "cash";
 antonov an-30 "clank";
 antonov an-32 "cline";
 antonov an-72/an-74 "coaler";
 antonov an-124 "condor";
 antonov an-225 "cossack";
 beriev be-30/be-32 "cuff";
 ilyushin il-12 "coach";
 ilyushin il-14 "crate";
 ilyushin il-18 "clam";
 ilyushin il-20/il-22 "coot";
 ilyushin il-62 "classic";
 ilyushin il-76 "candid";
 ilyushin il-86 "camber";
 lisunov li-2 "cab";
 tupolev tu-70 "cart";
 tupolev tu-104 "camel";
 tupolev tu-110 "cooker";
 tupolev tu-114 "cleat";
 tupolev tu-124 "cookpot";
 tupolev tu-134 "crusty";
 tupolev tu-144 "charger";
 tupolev tu-154 "careless";
 yakovlev yak-8 "crib";
 yakovlev yak-12 "creek"/"crow";
 yakovlev yak-16 "cork";
 yakovlev yak-40 "codling";
 yakovlev yak-42 "clobber";


see also: nato reporting name




</doc>
<doc id="4766716" title="list of ncaa philippines basketball champions" nonfiltered="79" processed="79" dbindex="79">
this is a list of the national collegiate athletic association (philippines) basketball champions, that is winner of the ncaa basketball tournament held every first semester (june to october) of the academic year.

each season, member schools participate on the basketball tournament. the tournament consists of four rounds. the first two rounds are the elimination rounds, where the top four teams advance to the semi-finals. the two best teams among the final four earns a twice to beat advantage, while the other two only needs to be beaten once in order to be eliminated.

the surviving teams from the semi-finals qualify for the best-of-three finals series, where the first team to notch two wins would be awarded with the championship trophy.

all of the games of the tournament are said to be held on neutral venues, that is outside campuses of the competing schools.




list of champions per year.
the school that wins both the juniors and seniors tournament in the same season are "double champions" and are denoted in bold.

early years (1924-1935).
the ncaa was founded by the ateneo de manila, de la salle college, the institute of accounts (known today as far eastern university), national university, san beda college, the university of manila, the university of the philippines, manila and the university of santo tomas. membership was liquid, and the composition of the league changed frequently.


the old-timer six (1936-68).
after national university, university of the philippines, manila, and university of santo tomas left the league, the ateneo de manila, colegio de san juan de letran, de la salle college, jos\e9 rizal college, map\faa institute of technology and san beda college continued the league and the league's membership remained unchanged for several decades.

world war ii interrupted the league's activities in 1941, but the league resumed operations after the war in 1947.


first expansion (1969-78).
san sebastian college - recoletos was admitted in 1969, marking the first change in the league's membership since 1936.


first contraction (1978-84).
the ateneo de manila university left the league in 1978 due to the violence that had become rampant in the games.

de la salle university, on the other hand, left the league in 1981 after a violence-filled 1980 game against letran.

san beda college left in 1984 to concentrate on intramural events.


second expansion (1984-95).
after the ateneo de manila, la salle, and san beda left, the ncaa opened its doors to new members. in 1984, perpetual help college of rizal was accepted as a new member, while trinity college of quezon city became a full member on 1985.

san beda rejoined the league in 1986, the year trinity was dropped from the league due to non-compliance of league requirements.


third expansion (1996-present).
in 1996, philippine christian university became the seventh member of the ncaa. three years later, de la salle-college of saint benilde was admitted as the eighth member. 


notes.
 the juniors tournament was suspended from 1961 to 1965 by the ncaa board of control when it was revealed when several schools fielded ineligible players.

 seniors championships awarded on the 1963-64 and 1964-65 seasons were later ruled as unofficial by the ncaa.

 colegio de san juan de letran returned the juniors trophy after a player was found to be ineligible.

list of championships per school.




notes.
teams marked with an asterisk (*) have withdrawn from the ncaa.

 includes midgets title.
 excludes the 2 seniors championships won on loose conference seasons.

championship streaks.
note: streaks which are highlighted are currently ongoing.

see also.
 ncaa philippines basketball championship - main article;
 uaap basketball champions;

references.


champions list at the official ncaa philippines website;
presidents and hosts list at the official ncaa philippines website;

external links.
 ncaa philippines official website;
 ubelt.com;






</doc>
<doc id="923028" title="declaration of rights of peoples of russia" nonfiltered="80" processed="80" dbindex="80">
the declaration of rights of peoples of russia (                                 ) was a document promulgated by the bolshevik government of russia on november 15 (november 2 by old style), 1917 (signed by vladimir lenin and joseph stalin).

the document proclaimed:

 equality and sovereignty of peoples of russia;
 right of peoples of russia  of a free self-determination, including secession and formation of a separate state;
 abolition of all national and religious privileges and restrictions;
 free development of national minorities and ethnographical groups populating the territory of russia.

the meaning of the declaration is still disputed in russian historiography. in 1917 the bolshevist thinking was still largely idealistic, dominated by vague ideas of "universal happiness". also, at that moment bolsheviks believed that the world revolution was imminent, so they did not care much about loss of territories. 

however, it is often argued that in fact lenin and stalin agreed to liberate mostly the territories they had no sovereignty upon since russia had lost them to central powers in 1915 and 1916. many historians suggest that the purpose of the document was to limit the public dissent after russia lost most of its western areas and try to complicate the matters behind the front lines. 

the declaration had the effect of rallying some of ethnic non-russians behind bolsheviks. latvian riflemen were important supporters of bolsheviks in the early days of russian civil war and latvian historians recognize the promise of sovereignty as an important reason for that. white russians did not support self-determination and, as a result, few latvians fought on the white side.

the right of secession was soon exercised by many nations that earlier had been incorporated into imperial russia. many areas in russia itself were also declared independent republics. bolshevist russia would, however, attempt to establish soviet power in as many of those as possible. all three baltic states experienced wars between soviet governments aiming to establish a communist state allied with bolshevist russia and non-communist governments aiming for an independent state. the soviet governments would receive a direct military support from russia. after the non-communist side winning, russia recognized them as the legitimate governments of baltic states in 1920.

russian historiography often cited the document as one of the main bases for the liberation of central european states. however, it is to be noted that poland, ukraine, lithuania, latvia, belarus and estonia were either created as puppet states by the central powers or liberated by the nations of the abovementioned countries themselves after the collapse of germany and austria-hungary.

 list of seceded lands .
the following countries declared their independence late after the bolsheviks' declaration, establishing themselves as non-communist states. although the role this declaration played for their declared independence is doubtful, it eased bolshevist russia's recognition of their independence. note that except for finland, all of these areas were outside of russian sovereignty following the austro-german successes in the great war and were officially ceded in the treaty of brest-litovsk. 

 ukrainian people's republic (autonomy november 22, 1917, independence january 22, 1918);
 moldova (december 2, 1917   joined romania in 1918);
 finland (december 6, 1917);
 lithuania (december 11, 1917);
 estonia (february 24, 1918);
 poland (november 11, 1918);
 latvia (november 18, 1918);
 belarus (march 25, 1918);

(exact dates need correction)

these countries declared their independence, as communist states, soon after the declaration:

 transcaucasia (april 22, 1918);
 tuva (june 1918);
 belarus;

several other independent republics have been proclaimed but happened to be short-lived:

 kazan;
 kaluga ;
 ryazan;
 ufa;
 bashkiria;
 orenburg;

later developments.
bolsheviks have never rejected the idea of self-determination, still the soviet constitutions (of 1924, 1936 and 1977) limited the right of secession to the constituent republics only. however, in 1990 lithuania declared its indepence again, citing their right to secession as written down in soviet constitution.





</doc>
<doc id="6433602" title="fivehead arable fields" nonfiltered="81" processed="81" dbindex="81">

fivehead arable fields () is a 10.3 hectare (25.4 acre) biological site of special scientific interest near the village of fivehead in somerset, notified in 1990.

this site has one of the most important assemblages of arable weeds in britain, several of which are now nationally rare or scarce. there is a large population of the nationally rare broad-fruited cornsalad (valerianella rimosa).

 references .



 external links .
fivehead arable fields from somerset wildlife trust;










</doc>
<doc id="7201959" title="austin lane" nonfiltered="82" processed="82" dbindex="82">
austin lane technologies is a a developer of enterprise applications for wireless handheld devices and personal computers. the company's headquarters reside in denton, tx. its major wireless business application is the almobile suite.









</doc>
<doc id="7744721" title="monaco at the 1924 summer olympics" nonfiltered="83" processed="83" dbindex="83">


monaco competed at the 1924 summer olympics in paris, france.

reference.
official olympic reports;










</doc>
<doc id="3181889" title="roderik bouwman" nonfiltered="84" processed="84" dbindex="84">
arnoldus leonardus henricus roderik bouwman (born march 24, 1957 in haarlem) is a former dutch field hockey player, who played 107 international matches for the netherlands, in which the striker scored 82 goals. 

he was a member of the holland squad that finished sixth at the 1984 summer olympics in los angeles, california. bouwman made his debut on august 19, 1978 in a friendly match against england. he played in the dutch league for amsterdam, schc and hgc. his father henk was also a skillful field hockey player, who competed at the 1948 summer olympics in london.

external link.
dutch hockey federation;










</doc>
<doc id="5111325" title="medicine river" nonfiltered="85" processed="85" dbindex="85">
medicine river is a novel written by author thomas king. it was first published by viking canada in 1989. the book was later adapted into a film version.

plot.

the main character, will, is a half-blackfoot, half-european, whose father is a bull-rider in calgary.  he was raised by his mother in medicine river.  he moves to toronto to become a photographer.  when he goes back to medicine river for his mother's funeral he is persuaded by harlen bigbear, the local jack-of-all-trades, to stay and open a photographer's shop.  as the book progresses we learn more and more about his life as a child, and about what life is like in the town near a native reserve he calls home.  he joins the basketball team, creates a calendar with pictures of native peoples, and has many other adventures as the book progresses.    




</doc>
<doc id="994777" title="whittman-hart" nonfiltered="86" processed="86" dbindex="86">


whittmanhart is a services company dealing with digital communications.

founded by bob bernard in the chicago area, it specialized first in as/400 it consulting. it grew steadily, for about 15 years, including some acquisitions. the company went public in 1996. in 1997, the fortune magazine named it one of the fastest growing companies in the us.

the company acquired us web/cks, a california-based web consulting firm, after which bob bernard decided to rename the business marchfirst, inc., the business was re-corporated on march 1st, 2000. this was at the height of the dot-com boom in 2000.

however, the company failed later that year, shuttering dozens of locations throughout the usa. it changed owners up to 2003 when it was reacquired by bob bernard. it still operates, but is not publicly traded.

in the last couple of years (2005-2006) whittmanhart has acquired numerous organizations including ohio based infinis inc, philadelphia based insight interactive group inc, maryland based estco.net, llc, chicago based vision enterprises, and los angeles based dna studio. the company has also established itself as one of the top performers in interactive marketing and advertising, corporate performance management, banking solutions and search engine optimization spaces.

its stock symbol was whit and later mrch (marchfirst).

external link.
 whittmanhart;





</doc>
<doc id="6132309" title="daniel abraham (rugby league footballer)" nonfiltered="87" processed="87" dbindex="87">
daniel abraham (born march 11, 1981 in belmont, new south wales) is an australian rugby league player for the newcastle knights in the national rugby league competition. his position of choice is at lock-forward though he also often plays in the second row.

abraham has also represented the new south wales country team on two occasions in 2003 and also 2004. 

 career playing statistics .
point scoring summary.


matches played.








</doc>
<doc id="7806450" title="liquid state machine" nonfiltered="88" processed="88" dbindex="88">
a liquid state machine (lsm) is a computational construct, like a neural network. an lsm consists of a large collection of units (called nodes, or neurons). each node receives time varying input from external sources (the inputs) as well as other nodes. nodes are randomly connected to each other. the recurrent nature of the connections turns the time varying input into a spatio-temporal pattern of activations in the network nodes. the spatio-temporal patterns of activation are read out by linear discriminant units.

the soup of recurrently connected nodes will end up computing a large variety of nonlinear functions on the input. given a large enough variety of such nonlinear functions, it is theoretically possible to obtain linear combinations (using the read out units) to perform whatever mathematical operation is needed to perform a certain task, such as speech recognition or computer vision.

the word liquid in the name comes from the analogy drawn to dropping a stone into a still body of water or other liquid. the falling stone will generate ripples in the liquid. the input (motion of the falling stone) has been converted into a spatio-temporal pattern of liquid displacement (ripples).

lsms have been put forward as a way to explain the operation of brains. lsms are argued to be an improvement over the theory of artificial neural networks because:


circuits are not hand coded to perform a specific task.
continuous time inputs are handled "naturally".
computations on various time scales can be done using the same network.
the same network can perform multiple computations.


criticisms of lsms as used in computational neuroscience are that

lsms don't actually explain how the brain functions. at best they can replicate some parts of brain functionality.
there is no guaranteed way to dissect a working network and figure out how or what computations are being performed.
very little control over the process. 
inefficient from an implementation point of view because they require lots of computations, compared to custom designed circuits, or even neural networks.

 references .

wolfgang  maass and thomas  natschl\e4ger and henry  markram "real-time computing without stable states: a new framework for neural computation based on perturbations" computation. 2002;14:2531-2560.;

wolfgang  maass and thomas  natschl\e4ger and henry  markram "computational models for generic cortical microcircuits"  in computational neuroscience: a comprehensive approach, ch 18, pg 575-605 (2004);

chrisantha fernando and sampsa sojakka "pattern recognition in a bucket" in advances in artificial life, pg 588-597 of series lecture notes in computer science, isbn 978-3-540-20057-4;




</doc>
<doc id="2959912" title="quasi-bidirectional i/o" nonfiltered="89" processed="89" dbindex="89">


a quasi-bidirectional i/o is a type of input-output port on an integrated circuit such as a pia.  it can be used as an input or output without the use of a control signal for data direction.  at power-on the i/os are high.  in this mode, only a current source to vdd is active.  an additional strong pull-up to vdd allows fast rising edges into heavily loaded outputs.






</doc>
<doc id="1740474" title="primacy of mind" nonfiltered="90" processed="90" dbindex="90">


a belief in the primacy of mind is a ubiquitous element in the history of ideas. in this view the mind or soul is not only primary as an explanation of human nature, but is the only conceivable explanation, as nothing so subtle and sublime as reason and morality could possibly emerge from matter and motion, the primary elements of scientific explanation. in his book darwin's dangerous idea (1995) daniel dennett explains that judeo-christian and islamic cosmogony are established on the assumption that the genesis of all creation is dependent on the action of a "cogitative being".

references.
dennett, d. c. (1995). darwin's dangerous idea: evolution and the meanings of life. london: penguin books. isbn 0-684-82471-x;

</doc>
<doc id="1579357" title="charles elkin mathews" nonfiltered="91" processed="91" dbindex="91">
charles elkin mathews (1851 - november 10, 1921 was a publisher and bookseller who played an important role in the literary life of late 19th and early 20th century london.

mathews' was born in gravesend and learned his trade in london and bath, before opening his own shop in exeter in 1884. he published his first books here, in collaboration with other local booksellers. in 1887 he returned to london and from 1892 to 1894 he worked in partnership with john lane, culminating in the publication of the yellow book in 1894. 

lane began went on to form the bodley head and mathews set up on his own, publishing works by his neighbour w.b. yeats, lionel johnson, james joyce, ezra pound and robert bridges, amongst others. 

reference.
 papers of charles elkin mathews at the university of reading captured march 7, 2005;









</doc>
<doc id="7799641" title="dia da amizade" nonfiltered="92" processed="92" dbindex="92">
 
dia da amizade is on november 5th. it is a holiday from rio de janeiro, brazil, and it emphasizes on calling your friends and thanking them for everything.

</doc>
<doc id="8774243" title="john willard (playwright)" nonfiltered="93" processed="93" dbindex="93">
john willard (born november 28, 1885, san francisco, california, died august 30, 1942, los angeles, california) was an american playwright. his most famous work was the cat and the canary (1922), a play that was made into the influential silent film of the same name in 1927.

 external link .
 john willard at the internet movie database.





</doc>
<doc id="4228806" title="rah bras" nonfiltered="94" processed="94" dbindex="94">


rah bras is a synth rock band originally out of richmond, va. the band consists of isabellarah rubella on synth, boo rah on keytar, and jean rah on drums, with all three providing vocals.

the band has played in the united states, europe, japan, canada and mexico.

discography.
wear the beat spectacular ep- vermiform records 1998;
concentrate to listen to the rondo that we christen king speed ep- lovitt records 1998;
ruy blas! lp/cd- lovitt records 2001;
torubleman mixtape cd- troubleman unlimited 2001;
this just in... benefit for indy media - geykido comet records 2005;
whohm lp/cd- lovitt records 2005;

external links.
official site;
lovitt records;
rah bras my space page;



</doc>
<doc id="8773164" title="erland hellstr\f6m" nonfiltered="95" processed="95" dbindex="95">


erland hellstr\f6m (born as erland folke henry hellstr\f6m 16 december 1980) is a swedish football goalkeeper who currently plays for hammarby if in stockholm.
he is the son of ronnie hellstr\f6m, who also played as goalkeeper for hammarby if. 









</doc>
<doc id="125983" title="las vegas, new mexico" nonfiltered="96" processed="96" dbindex="96">


las vegas is a city in san miguel county, new mexico,  united states. once two separate towns, west las vegas ("old town") and east las vegas ("new town"), divided by the gallinas river, retain distinct characters and separate, rival, school districts. the population was 14,565 at the 2000 census. it is the county seat of san miguel county.

las vegas is the home of new mexico highlands university. it is also a venue used by the ibna for teacher training, perhaps due to the proximity of the armand hammer united world college of the american west.

las vegas is sometimes mistaken for las vegas, nevada.  

history.
las vegas was established in 1835 after a group of settlers received a land grant from the mexican government. the town was laid out in the traditional spanish colonial style, with a central plaza surrounded by buildings which could serve as fortifications in case of attack. las vegas soon prospered as a stop on the santa fe trail. during the mexican-american war in 1846, stephen w. kearny delivered an address at the plaza of las vegas claiming new mexico for the united states.

when the railroad arrived in 1880 it set up shop one mile east of the plaza, creating a separate, rival new town (as in albuquerque). during the railroad era las vegas boomed, quickly becoming one of the largest cities in the american southwest. turn-of-the-century las vegas featured all the modern amenities, including an electric street railway, the "duncan opera house" at the ne corner of 6th street and douglas avenue, a carnegie library, a major harvey house hotel, and the new mexico normal school (now nmhu). since the decline of the railroad began in the 1950s the city's population has remained relatively constant.

geography.

las vegas is located at  (35.597031, -105.222589).

according to the united states census bureau, the city has a total area of 19.5 km\b2 (7.5 mi\b2), all land.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 14,565 people, 5,588 households, and 3,559 families residing in the city. the population density was 748.8/km\b2 (1,938.2/mi\b2). there were 6,366 housing units at an average density of 327.3/km\b2 (847.1/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the city was 54.21% white, 0.99% african american, 1.96% native american, 0.61% asian, 0.10% pacific islander, 37.19% from other races, and 4.95% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 82.94% of the population.

there were 5,588 households out of which 33.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 36.0% were married couples living together, 21.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 36.3% were non-families. 30.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 2.48 and the average family size was 3.08.

in the city the population was spread out with 26.4% under the age of 18, 13.3% from 18 to 24, 26.2% from 25 to 44, 21.2% from 45 to 64, and 12.8% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 34 years. for every 100 females there were 90.4 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 86.2 males.

the median income for a household in the city was $24,214, and the median income for a family was $29,797. males had a median income of $26,319 versus $21,731 for females. the per capita income for the city was $12,619 as compared to $21,587 nationally as noted in the 2000 census. about 24.3% of families and 27.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 35.7% of those under age 18 and 20.1% of those age 65 or over.

architecture.
las vegas is home to a very large number of historic structures (mostly railroad-era houses and commercial buildings), with over 900 listed on the national register of historic places. although many buildings are in varying states of deterioration, others have been restored or are awaiting restoration. some of the city's notable buildings include:

dr. h.j. mueller house, 1881 example of victorian eclecticism with unusual octagonal tower;
plaza hotel, 1881, site of the first reunion of teddy roosevelt's rough riders in 1899;
old city hall, new mexico's first municipal building, completed in 1892;
louis fort house, queen anne house on carnegie park, built in 1895;
masonic temple, richardsonian romanesque building erected in 1895;
la castaneda hotel, mission-style harvey house built in 1898;
carnegie library, built in 1903 at the center of carnegie park and modeled after monticello;

transportation.
railway
las vegas amtrak station is a stop on the southwest chief route.

airport
las vegas municipal airport. single engine, small commercial jets, and helicopters.

major highways
interstate 25;
interstate 40 (55 miles via us 84);

movies filmed in las vegas.

many silent western films were made in and around las vegas, especially in the years 1913-1915, including a number that starred tom mix. 

in the 1969 movie easy rider, las vegas, nm is the town where the two bikers ride behind a parade, are arrested for "parading without a permit," and meet jack nicholson's character in jail. the town name can be seen in the background in one scene during this part of the movie.

the town was the filming location for parts of the 1978 movie convoy, a film about truck drivers inspired by the 1975 song of the same name.

parts of the ballad of gregorio cortez (1983) were filmed in and around las vegas.

las vegas was the real-world town used to represent the fictional setting of calumet, colorado in john milius' 1984 film red dawn. as of 2005, many of the buildings and structures seen in the film remain.

several scenes in the 1998 john carpenter's vampires were filmed in the plaza.

in the 2001 documentary freedom downtime, a cross-country road trip to las vegas, nevada ends up in las vegas, new mexico by mistake.

las vegas is also the hometown of producer darren martinez.

in 2006, the film fanboys used las vegas as one of its film locations.  the film is about a dying star wars fan and will be released in 2007.  the upcoming movie the astronaut farmer, also a 2007 projected release, was also filmed here.

external links.
las vegas / san miguel county chamber of commerce;
las vegas, nm city government;
las vegas / san miguel economic development corporation;
las vegas daily optic;














</doc>
<doc id="4681826" title="no. 437 squadron rcaf" nonfiltered="97" processed="97" dbindex="97">


437 husky squadron is a air force unit with the canadian forces. based at cfb trenton. it is responsible for long range airlift for the cf.

 squadron history .

formed in england in 1944 is provided general transport until disbanded in 1946.

reformed at trenton in 1961 it was initially equipped with cc-106 yukon. it was re-equipped with the cc-137 husky (boeing 707) in 1972. while operating the husky it provided air to air refueling in addition to transport service.

437 squadron frequently supports government dignitaries while on official visits including the queen and the prime minister of canada.

the squadron currently operates the cc-150 polaris which is a modified version of the airbus a310.

the c-17 globemaster iii will be stationed with the squadron starting in august 2007.

 external links .

 www.rcaf.com;
 dnd - 437 squadron history;








</doc>
<doc id="6838742" title="greatest hits (& some that will be)" nonfiltered="98" processed="98" dbindex="98">


greatest hits (& some that will be) is a compilation album by country artist willie nelson.  it was released in 1981 as a double-lp.

track listing.
side a.
 "railroad lady"    2:38;
 "heartaches of a fool"    2:28;
 "blue eyes crying in the rain"    2:17;
 "whiskey river"    3:40;
 "good hearted woman"    2:57;

side b.
 "georgia on my mind"    4:19;
 "if you've got the money honey i've got the time"    2:05;
 "look what thoughts will do"    2:40;
 "uncloudy day"    4:38;
 "mammas don't let your babies grow up to be cowboys"    3:25;

side c.
 "my heroes have always been cowboys"    3:02;
 "help me make it through the night"    3:57;
 "angel flying too close to the ground"    4:23;
 "i'd have to be crazy"    3:24;
 "faded love"    3:48;

side d.
 "on the road again"    2:39;
 "heartbreak hotel"    3:00;
 "if you could touch her at all"    3:27;
 "till i gain control again"    5:59;
 "stay a little longer"    3:24;









</doc>
<doc id="8295042" title="kalduny/work" nonfiltered="99" processed="99" dbindex="99">
kalduny or kolduny (, ) is a  belarusian dish, a kind of dumplings.  in slavic languages the word means  magicians ,  sorcerers , however it is unclear how the word entered into the cuisine.

some people maintain it came from the west (germany or czech crown) in xv century (in medieval latin calduna meant  still warm bowels of just killed animal , derived from calidus    warm) . but belarusian tatars who settled in the country in xiv-xv centuries, insist that kalduny is the descendant of similar tatar dish kundumy. these big kalduny are prepared for the major moslem feasts, with lavishly spiced mutton or veal stuffing and are eaten by spoon so that dough wrapping is not broken (torn?) and not a single drop of delicious juice from inside is lost. traditional tartar kundumy were deep fried in a good amount of melted sheep fat.

kalduny, dough dumplings with meat, mushroom or other stuffing are indeed related to similar dishes both in the west ad in the east, from italian ravioli to russian pelmeni and uzbek manty.

same as for many other dishes, belarusians argue with poles and lithuanians for the priority of introducing kalduny into the cuisine of the polish-lithuanian commonwealth. the most famous are kalduny a-la count tyshkevich invented in the xix century by the old aristocratic belarusian tyshkevich (tyszkiewicz) family, and this increases chances of belarusians in the vigorous battle for heritage.kalduny are made with smoked ham & mushroom stuffing and were long considered the country s  visiting card    although decades of soviet-time oblivion almost erased their trace from the popular memory, and now they are served only in few local restaurants.

the simplest dough for kalduny is made of flour mixed with tepid water with some salt. but in the days of yore any decent gentry housewife had her own secret of dough: some added beaten eggs, some flax seed oil, some baking soda. some maintain that the true dough for kalduny should me mixed with onion juice, not water. anyway, good dough for kalduny shall be soft but elastic, easy to strain and to glue. well blended dough has to be wrapped into a clean serviette and left to cool and to  rest  for some time. when shaping your own kalduny, lay the ready ones on a clean surface strewn with flour and close the rest of the dough with a kitchen towel so that it don t dry out.

kalduny may be both a main course and a dessert, depending on stuffing. for the latter meat, or fish, or farmer cheese, or dried fruit, may be used. stuffing should be neither too  hard  nor too sticky   best if you can shape small 1 inch ball from it. it should not get between the 2 edges of the glued kalduny so that they do not disintegrate during cooking. the sauce with which kalduny are served also depends on stuffing. for  vilnia  (vilnius) stuffing melted butter is the best, while for  russian  stuffing   thick sour cream, and fruit syrups   for the fruit stuffing.

most kalduny are best when boiled in big shallow casserole at low heat in well-salted water, just some 5-6 minutes after surfacing. but some  species  can be baked, fried. those in polesian style, with stuffing of boiled river fish and hardboiled eggs are, for instance, deep-fried. almost infinite number of combinations of dough, stuffing and sauce gives unlimited potential for the creativity which still mostly lay unclaimed: the country is dominated by russian pelmeni and, partly, by the ukrainian vareniki.

 references .

 szymanderska h. encyclopedia polskiej sztuki kulinarnej. rra, warszawa, 2003.
 holub. przy wilenskim stole. 1992.


</doc>
<doc id="8617597" title="john millen" nonfiltered="100" processed="100" dbindex="100">
john millen (1804 - october 15, 1843) was a united states representative and lawyer from georgia.

born in savannah, georgia, in 1804, millen studied law, gained admittance to the state bar and practiced law in savannah. millen served in the georgia house of representatives in 1828, 1834, 1835, 1839, and 1840. he was elected as a democrat to the twenty-eighth congress and served from march 4, 1843, until his death in savannah, ga., october 15, 1843; interment in laurel grove cemetery. 

owens was elected as a democratic representative from georgia to the 28th united states congress and died only several months after assuming office, serving in total from march 4, 1843, until his death in savannah on october 15, 1843. he was buried in that city's laurel grove cemetery.






references.
;
;











</doc>
<doc id="2499780" title="tago mago" nonfiltered="101" processed="101" dbindex="101">

tago mago, released in 1971 (originally as a double lp), was the third album by the krautrock band can and the second to feature the vocals of damo suzuki. the name comes from a large rock formation off the coast of ibiza that figures in the legend of aleister crowley. tago mago is generally considered the band's greatest album: it is groundbreaking, influential and deeply unconventional, based on intensely rhythmic jazz-inspired drumming, improvised guitar and keyboard soloing (frequently intertwining each other), tape edits, and suzuki's idiosyncratic vocalisms. the album was recorded by holger czukay at inner space studio, a converted movie theater near cologne.

track listing.
all songs written by can.

 "paperhouse"   7:29;
 "mushroom"   4:08;
 "oh yeah"   7:22;
 "halleluhwah"   18:32;
 "aumgn"   17:22;
 "peking o"   11:35;
 "bring me coffee or tea"   6:47;

personnel.
holger czukay: bass, double bass, engineering, editing;
michael karoli: guitar, violin, mandolin;
jaki liebezeit: drums, percussion, double bass, wind instruments;
irmin schmidt: keyboards, synthesizers, percussion, vocals;
damo suzuki: vocals, percussion, wind instruments;

external links.
listen to the album on the mute player at mute.com (make sure you are in the uk version of the website).







</doc>
<doc id="1138249" title="years 1990 - 1999 in irish music" nonfiltered="102" processed="102" dbindex="102">
 births and deaths .
 none;
 recordings.
 1990 "the red crow" (altan);
 1991 "sharon shannon" (sharon shannon);
 1992 "trian" (trian);
 1993 "island angel" (altan);
 1994 "the day dawn" (boys of the lough);
 1995 "playing with fire" (dervish);
 1997 "each little thing" (sharon shannon);
 1998 "the music of what happens" (cathie ryan);
 1998 "paddy keenan" (paddy keenan);
 1999 "the piper's call" (liam o'flynn);

other years.
1500 1899 | 
1900 1949 | 
1950 1959 | 
1960 1969 | 
1970 1979 | 
1980 1989 | 
1990 1999 | 
2000 2010
see also.
 timeline of trends in music from the united kingdom;


</doc>
<doc id="6328969" title="isoko" nonfiltered="103" processed="103" dbindex="103">
history.
isoko is the name of one of the ethnic groups living in the niger delta area of nigeria. the people fondly call themselves the "isoko nation" or the "isoko people". the isoko area is located in the present delta state of nigeria. it used to be a part of the defunct "mid-west region" and then was part of "bendel state", before bendel state was split to form two new states: "edo" and "delta" states. the language spoken by the isoko people is "isoko". it is linguistically similar to that spoken by the neighboring urhobo people. while some people believed that the isoko people  originated from the benin peoples, this is not true. professor obaro ikime states "if there is any aspect of the history of the various peoples of nigeria about which no one can speak with any exactitude, it is that which deals with the origins of our peoples" . the belief that most of the isoko groups are of benin origin were views held and expressed in the 1960s and 1970s. these views were "decidedly simplistic and were based on british intelligence reports of the 1930s" and ikime's field work of 1961-1963.

politics and government.
with the creation of the present delta state in nigeria, 2 local government units were created in the isoko. these are:
isoko north  - the isoko north local government area has its headquarters at ozoro;
isoko south - the isoko south local government area has its headquarters at oleh;

major isoko towns.
	ada;
	aradhe;
	aviara;
	bethel;
	ellu;
	emede;
	emevor;
	enhwe;
	erowa;
	ibrede;
	idheze;
	igbide;
	igbuku;
	iluelogbo;
	irri;
	ivori;
	ivrogbo;
	iyede;
	ofagbe;
	okpe;
	oleh;
	olomoro;
       onogboko;
	orie;
	otor-ohwe;
	ovrode;
	owhe;
	oyede;
	ozoro;
	umeh;
	uro;
	utue;
	uzere;

economy.
the main economic activity is food crop farming. and the staple food crops include cassava and yams. there is also the widespread production of palm oil and palm kernels. limited amount of hunting and fishing is also done. women form a large proportion of the farming population. they also engage in trade of food crops for cash to meet other basic household needs. on market days, it is common to see isoko women peddling their assorted goods around neighboring villages.

cassava is the source of most of the foods consumed by the isoko people. "garri", starch meal ("ozi"), "egu" are cassava derivatives.

food crop production has been declining rapidly recently. this has been largely attributed to soil damage resulting from frequent crude oil spills from pipelines belonging to some of the major oil producing companies (including shell petroleum development company (spdc), whose pipeline network transverse the landscape). this has led to large-scale frustrations with shell petroleum development company, and has resulted in skirmishes and, recently, kidnappings for ransom in some neighboring communities.

demographics.
there is no definitive population census figure on the size of the isoko people and, indeed, most of nigeria. the various nigerian census figures have been controversial and are deemed unsupportable.

transport.
popular mode of transport is the motorcycle and bicycle. inter-city travel is by bus or car.


education.
several secondary schools and post-secondary schools exist in the region. the isoko people know the value of education and encourage their young to attend school. the isoko people have been known to be very passionate about location of education infrastructure in their communities, believing it is a mark of progress.  	 
 
early emphasis was on teacher-training schools and this led to a glut of teachers in the community. this is rapidly changing as opportunities offered by other professions are recognized.

major post-primary educational institutions in the region include notre dame college, ozoro; james welch grammar school, emevor; saint joseph's teacher's college, ozoro; saint michael's college oleh; bribina grammar school, ozoro, and several more. post-secondary schools include a campus of the delta state university at oleh and a polytechnic at ozoro.

society and culture.
the language of the isoko people is "isoko"

the isoko people are predominantly christians. traditional idol worship still thrives despite the strong onslaught of christian principles. "oghene" means god.

geography and climate.
location.
the isoko region is located in delta state of modern nigeria. 

local climatic conditions.
isoko region is in the tropical rain forest area of the niger-delta. the region experiences high rainfall and high humidity most of the year. the climate is equatorial and is marked by two distinct seasons. the dry and rainy seasons. the dry season lasts from about november to april and is significantly marked by the cool "harmarttan" dusty haze from the north-east winds. the rainy season spans may to october with a brief dry spell in august. 







</doc>
<doc id="7766903" title="uss whirlwind (pc-11)" nonfiltered="104" processed="104" dbindex="104">


uss whirlwind (pc-11) is the eleventh cyclone class patrol (coastal) ship. whirlwind was laid down march 4, 1994 by bollinger machine, lockport, louisiana and launched september 9, 1994. she was commissioned july 1, 1995.

external links.
fas;
nvr;








</doc>
<doc id="2504989" title="judy reyes" nonfiltered="105" processed="105" dbindex="105">


judy reyes (born november 5, 1967 in the bronx, new york) is an american television and film actress.

she is best known for her portrayal of nurse carla espinosa on the nbc sitcom scrubs (2001-present) and had a short stint on the sopranos as the girlfriend of paulie walnuts. she also made a brief appearance on the television series oz, where she played the wife of the blinded correctional officer rivera.

external links.
 ;
 judy reyes cast bio on nbc;




















</doc>
<doc id="3888982" title="john dalrymple (mp)" nonfiltered="106" processed="106" dbindex="106">

john dalrymple (c.1699 23 february 1742) was a scottish member of parliament (mp) in the british parliament. 

he represented wigtown burghs 1728 1734.










</doc>
<doc id="5830574" title="dragan primorac" nonfiltered="107" processed="107" dbindex="107">
dr. dragan primorac, m.d., ph.d. (born june 7, 1965) is a medical doctor, geneticist, politician and a member of croatian government, currently serving as the minister of science, education and sports.
 
 education and experience.

dr. dragan primorac graduated from the university of zagreb, split medical school in 1991. he successfully defended his doctoral dissertation, entitled  osteogenesis imperfecta as a result of faulty processing of messenger rna , in 1997 at the university of zagreb, medical school. he is a pediatrician and forensic science expert. dr. primorac worked several years as a postdoctoral fellow and later also as an instructor at the university of connecticut medical school in farmington, ct, usa. he was also trained at the connecticut state police forensic science laboratory, meriden, the armed forces institute of pathology (afip), rockville, the analytical genetic testing center, denver, the university hospital st. christopher's, allegheny university, philadelphia, and the roche molecular systems, alameda, all in the united states.

 fellowships .

dr. primorac is a member of the croatian society for human genetics, the croatian society for osteogenesis imperfecta, the american academy of forensic science and the american society for human genetics. he has received many domestic and international awards, including the young investigator award (american society for bone and mineral research), the michael geisman fellowship award (osteogenesis imperfecta foundation), a joint award of the city of split together with dr. \a6imun an elinovi  and a life time achievement award by the new haven university, dr. h. c. lee institute of forensic science.

 career in science .

he is the author of 70 scientific research articles and scientific abstracts, 43 of which are cited in the current contents and science citation index databases. furthermore, as a guest lecturer he participated in more than 30 professional conferences. until now he has been cited more than 600 times (www.scopus.com). he has taught and continues to teach undergraduate classes at the university medical schools in zagreb and split as well as teaching both research and professional graduate seminars at the medical schools in zagreb, split, osijek and verona, italy. 
you can find more about his bibliography in croatian scientific biblography crosbi.

dr. primorac is a co-founder of the laboratory for clinical and forensic genetics at the clinical hospital in split. he is a longtime member of the government office for detained and missing persons and served as a member of the council for technology at the previous ministry of science and technology of the republic of croatia before assuming his current post as minister. for two years he was the main coordinator of an international project that brought together six european countries with the aim of applying and analyzing new dna methods for the purpose of identification. dr. primorac is the founder of the american-european school for clinical and forensic genetics which is being held bi-annually in croatia. moreover, for the past four years the mayo clinic, one of the most prestigious hospitals in the united states, is actively participating in the work of this congress as a co-organizer (until now about 1700 scientists from nearly 60 countries have participated in the work of the congress; (www.isabs.hr). 

he is the author of the original results on the genetic origins of the europeans, with a special interest in the origins of the croatians and the peoples of the bosnia and herzegovina. he has also published extensively in the fields of forensic science, population genetics, and molecular genetics of bone diseases in children, etc. several renowned media outlets, both electronic and print, have reported on the results of his research work, such as the new york times , usa today, chicago tribune, hartford courant, jama, lancet, science, nbc, channel 8 (connecticut tv station), etc. dr. primorac worked at the clinic for pediatrics and served for several years as the head of the laboratory for clinical and forensic genetics, both at split clinical hospital. he was also manager of the polyclinic  sveti duh ii  (holy spirit ii) in zagreb, which is now majority-owned by an israeli private company. he is mentoring the preparation of five doctoral dissertations as well as three masters and two undergraduate theses.

since december 2003, dr. primorac is a member of the croatian government serving as the minister of science, education and sports.

in addition, see who is who in croatian science.







</doc>
<doc id="595424" title="iinan district, mie" nonfiltered="108" processed="108" dbindex="108">
iinan (   ; -gun) was a district located in mie, japan.

as of 2003, the district had an estimated population of 11,235 and a density of 35.41 persons per km\b2. the total area was 317.27 km\b2.

until december 31, 2004, there were two towns in the district.
iinan;
iitaka;

on january 1, 2005, these two towns merged with ichishi district and the old city of matsusaka to form the new city of matsusaka, and the district was officially dissolved.








</doc>
<doc id="882510" title="danny blanchflower" nonfiltered="109" processed="109" dbindex="109">
robert dennis "danny" blanchflower (born february 10, 1926 in belfast, died december 9, 1993) was a footballer, football manager, and journalist who captained spurs during their double-winning season of 1961.  he is remembered as one of the great tacticians in the history the game, renowned for his passing, as an outstanding right-half and as an thoroughly decent human being.
early years.
blanchflower was born in the bloomfield district of belfast, possibly inheriting some footballing ability from his mother, who had played as a centre-forward in a women's team. he was educated at ravenscroft public elementary school and was awarded a scholarship to belfast college of technology. he left early to become an apprentice electrician at the gallachers' cigarette factory. he also joined the air-raid precautions (arp) and in 1943 lied about his age in order to join the raf. as a trainee navigator he was sent on a course to st andrews university (where he acquired a lifelong love of golf) and in the spring of 1945 was posted to canada for further training. by 1946 he was back in belfast, back at gallachers, and building a reputation as an outstanding footballer.
playing career.
he began his professional football career at the end of the second world war when he was signed by belfast side glentoran. in 1949, barnsley f.c. paid \a36,000 to transfer him to england, and two years later aston villa bought him for \a315,000. he played 155 times for villa, captaining the side on many occasions. however, he became unhappy with the club and the way training was conducted, becoming one of the first to propose that players should train with a ball as opposed to merely undertaking physical exercise. in 1954 he was bought by spurs for the huge fee of \a330,000, and during his ten years at white hart lane he made 337 league appearances.

the highlight of his time at spurs came with the 1960-61 season. with blanchflower as captain spurs won their first 11 games, still a record for the top flight of english football and eventually ran out as league champions by 8 points. they then beat leicester city in the final of the fa cup to become the first team in the 20th century to win the league and cup double not achieved since aston villa in 1897.

in 1962 he again captained spurs to victory in the fa cup, only narrowly missing out on a second double when they finished a close third in the league behind ipswich town and burnley, and in 1963 he captained his side to victory over atl\e9tico madrid in the final of the european cup winners' cup.

between 1949 and 1963, he earned 56 caps for northern ireland, often playing alongside his brother jackie, and in 1958 captained his country when they reached the quarter-finals of the world cup.

career as manager.
after retiring as a player in april 1964, he withdrew from football for several years, returning briefly as manager of northern ireland in 1978, and as manager of chelsea in 1978-1979, where he won just 5 out of 32 games as the club plunged towards relegation. he eventually left the job less than a year after his appointment, in september 1979.
off the field.
he was one of only a handful of players to have been awarded the title of english footballer of the year on two occasions, winning in both 1958 and 1961. on february 6, 1961, he also became the first person to turn down the invitation to appear on this is your life, simply walking away from host eamonn andrews live on air. "i consider this programme to be an invasion of privacy", he explained. "nobody is going to press gang me into anything."

in the later years of his life, he suffered from alzheimer's disease, and died at his home in december 1993 aged 67. in 2003 blanchflower was inducted into the english football hall of fame in recognition of his talents. 
 quotations .
 "everything in our favour was against us.";
 "the great fallacy is that the game is first and last about winning.  it is nothing of the kind. the game is about glory, it is about doing things in style and with a flourish, about going out and beating the other lot, not waiting for them to die of boredom.";
 "george  makes a greater appeal to the senses than  finney or  matthews did, his movements are quicker, lighter, more balletic. george offers grander surprises to the mind and the eye. he has ice in his veins, warmth in his heart, and timing and balance in his feet" ;
 " hoddle? no, it's the bad players who are a luxury.";
 "if we've got the ball, they can't score.";
 "we aim to equalise before the other team score. we should get our retaliation in first.";
 "if we northern ireland don't know what we're going to do, how can the other side?";
 "winning isn't everything, but wanting to win is.";
 "ideas are very funny things. they never work unless you do.";
 spurs club director: "the trouble with you is that you think you know all the answers."  blanchflower: "ah, god love you, you don't even know the questions!";









external links.
 english football hall of fame profile;






















</doc>
<doc id="9390437" title="minute women of the u.s.a." nonfiltered="110" processed="110" dbindex="110">
the minute women of the u.s.a. was one of the largest of a number of militant anti-communist women's groups that was active during the 1950s and early 1960s. such groups, which organized suburban housewives into anti-communist study groups, political activism and letter-writing campaigns, were a bedrock of support for mccarthyism. the primary concerns of the minute women and other similar groups were the exposure of communist subversion, the defence of constitutional limits, opposition to atheism, socialism and social welfare provisions such as the new deal; and rejection of internationalism, particularly in the form of the united nations.

the minute women were a national group founded by suzanne stevenson of connecticut in september 1949. they grew rapidly, especially in texas, california, west virginia, maryland, and connecticut. by 1952 they had over 50,000 members. they were predominately white middle- and upper-class women aged between thirty and sixty, with school-aged or grown children. chapters were relatively small, numbering only a few dozen or a few hundred people; the houston chapter, which later became famous, numbered around 300. over sixty of the houstonian minute women were doctors' wives, reflecting medical opposition to socialized medicine. although college-educated, they were poorly informed; many relied on the facts forum news published by houston oil millionaire h. l. hunt to disseminate his conspiracy theories.

unlike many other anti-communist groups, the minute women operated in a semi-covert fashion. stevenson instructed members to never reveal that they were minute women and always present themselves as individual concerned citizens. in her view, political activism was more effective when it appeared to be spontaneous.

the organization was structured in a unique fashion, ostensibly to defend against communist infiltration. it had no constitution or bylaws, no parliamentary procedure to guide the meetings, and no option for motions from the floor; its officers were appointed rather than elected. its members communicated via a chain-telephoning system in which one member called five others, who in turn made five more calls, enabling hundreds to be contacted within a short space of time. membership of the minute women was restricted to american citizens, though ironically the group's founder had been born in belgium and was the sister of the belgian ambassador, baron robert silvercruys.

the minute women sought to apply political pressure through letter-writing campaigns, heckling speakers and swamping their opponents with telephone calls. in houston, texas, where they were particularly strong, they took over the local school board. they claimed to have planted observers in university of houston classrooms to watch out for controversial material and teachers.

their tactics were highly effective; as the houston post noted, "many public officials ... who might ... defy a lone organization ... would be loath to go against the wishes of 500 individuals." the houston minute women harassed and fired teachers and administrators, including the deputy superintendent of the houston public schools, for alleged communism, and forced the university to eliminate history programs from its educational television broadcasts. an annual essay-writing contest sponsored by the united nations educational, scientific, and cultural organization (unesco) was banned on the grounds that unesco was unacceptably "internationalist". at one point, the minute women circulated a report that "troops flying the united nations flag once took over several american cities in a surprise move, throwing the mayors in jail and locking up the police chiefs." a member who pointed out the falsity of the report found herself ruled out of order by her fellow minute women.

even well-respected groups and individuals found themselves targeted by the minute women. the quakers' american friends service committee was refused permission to use a houston meeting hall after the minute women protested that alger hiss had once attended a quaker meeting. rufus clement, the president of atlanta university and the first-ever african-american to serve on the atlanta board of education, faced protests from minute women when he lectured at a houston methodist church, on the grounds that he was "too controversial". the houston post commented that "a new meaning has been given to the word controversial ... it now often becomes a derogatory epithet, frequently synonymous with the word communist."  there was an overt element of racism in the minute women's activities, which included distributing anti-semitic literature and opposing proponents of integrated schools, whom they regarded as communist-inspired advocates of "race mongrelization." 

the minute women's campaign in houston eventually backfired following an expos\e9 by the houston post in 1953, which published an eleven-part series of articles written by ralph o'leary to highlight the group's activities. the newspaper was deluged by an avalanche of mail, much of which complimented it on the courage that it had displayed in taking on the minute women. o'leary's reports were widely praised, with time magazine describing the post's coverage as "a model of how a newspaper can effectively expose irresponsible vigilantism." 

despite this setback the minute women remained active throughout the remainder of the 1950s and into the 1960s. they played a major role in stoking the 1956 controversy over the alaska mental health bill (hr 6376), claiming that the bill was an attempt by congress to give the government authority to abduct citizens at will and imprison them in concentration camps in alaska.  the group finally faded away as the nation turned against mccarthyism and the anti-communist hysteria diminished.

references.






</doc>
<doc id="1767914" title="puteri gunung ledang (film)" nonfiltered="112" processed="111" dbindex="112">
;

puteri gunung ledang is a 2004 malaysian film based on a malay legend about a princess living on top of gunung ledang and a malaccan sultan's effort to court her. produced at a cost of usd $4 million, it was the first big-budget malaysian movie. the movie, starring m. nasir, adlin aman ramlee, and lead actress, tiara jacquelina, was directed by saw teong hin and produced by shazalli ramly. 

plot.


set in the late 15th century sultanate of malacca and the grand javanese kingdom of majapahit, against a backdrop of war and mysticism, the movie is about the forbidden romance that blossomed between gusti putri, a javanese hindu princess, and hang tuah, the famed malay muslim warrior from melaka. the historic melacca was once one of the world's great trading ports, and the most powerful maritime empire in southeast asia. history, mythology and fiction are fused to tell a fateful tale of forbidden love, in a time when allegiance and honor to country are foremost to personal desires.

gusti putri retno dumillah (tiara jacquelina), a princess of the majapahit kingdom, has fallen profoundly in love with one of melaka s most commanding and spirited warriors, hang tuah (m. nasir). a vivid dream compels the princess to commit the unspeakable, and leave her assigned palace life. without the consent of her king, she sets sail across the open seas, with the unflinching hope that she can be reunited with her one true love.

soon after the princess  parting, the majapahit kingdom is attacked by the powerful javanese kingdom of demak. desperate to quell the invasion, gusti putri's brother and king, gusti adipati handaya ningrat (alex komang), initiates a plan to offer his sister's hand in marriage to the prince of demak. her absence renders this solution impossible. the king's only hope for security is to forge an alliance with the mighty melaka sultanate by offering his sister's hand in marriage to sultan mahmud shah of melaka.

the sultan accepts. but the princess is unable to bring herself to do this as she could not bear to be his queen. the princess instead offers to marry the prince of demak. the indignant sultan will not accept the rejection, nor will he be publicly humiliated. he plots to marry the princess at all cost.

hang tuah is ordered to head the royal delegation, and proposes to gusti putri on behalf of the sultan. the warrior devotedly leads the convoy up gunung ledang in search of the woman he deeply loves. the princess attempts to curtail their advance, but eventually yields to hang tuah's appeal.

gusti adipati was extremely angry that hang tuah is getting in his way and invoked supernatural powers to combat him. he instantly appeared by hang tuah with wearing ornately designed armor and challenged him to a combat. despite his supernatural prowess, he is defeated by hang tuah and his magical taming sari kris. the injured gusti adipati expresses that the fate of his country is more important than some love, and hang tuah's meddling has destroyed his only hope of saving his people. the guilty hang tuah, along with the fact that he can't go against the wishes of his sultan, resigned as laksamana and cast his taming sari kris into the river, never to be found again.

after a fleeting and tender reunion, the princess is painfully aware that her beloved's foremost duty is that of a warrior. despite confessing his love for her, hang tuah will not forsake the sultan's wishes. brokenhearted, she agrees to marry the sultan on the proviso that he is able to fulfill seven prohibitive conditions:
 a bridge made of pure gold from melaka to gunung ledang;
 another bridge made of pure silver from melaka to gunung ledang;
 seven trays (dulang) of the hearts of mosquitoes;
 seven jars (tempayan) of the juice of young betel nuts (note: young betel nuts do not have juice);
 one jar (tempayan) of tears;
 one bowl of blood from the sultan himself; and;
 one bowl of blood from his fondest son, sultan ahmad.

when the sultan learns of the princess' prohibitive conditions, he is even more determined to marry her. but before he could draw blood from his son, the mental projection of gusti putri appeared before his eyes. she explained to him that her conditions are nothing more than an indirect refusal of his proposal for marriage. the sultan, feeling ridiculed planted a curse that starting from next sunlight whomsoever saw the princess will die coughing blood (in malay folklore sultans carry the power of "tulah", which means that his curse comes true).

hang tuah, having heard of the curse of the sultan from the bendahara, rushed to mount ledang to see her one last time. with only one day remaining he rushes to the top, only to arrive after the sun has risen.

but hang tuah is so determined to see her again that he wouldn't care that it would cost him his life. the story ends when gusti putri reveals herself to him. it is henceforth unknown what happens to him and her next. and the story of the two continues for generations up until know in a legend known as puteri gunung ledang (princess of mount ledang).

awards.
tiara jacquelina won the "best actress" category at the 50th asia pacific film festival, as well as the "best producer" award at the inaugural asian festival of first films in singapore (2005).

see also.

 puteri gunung ledang (musical);
 legend of gunung ledang;
 mount ophir;
 hikayat hang tuah;

external links.
official website;
;











</doc>
<doc id="6626676" title="carrickfergus (song)" nonfiltered="113" processed="112" dbindex="113">
"carrickfergus" is an irish folk song. it is a typical lament of an irish expatriate who wishes he was back in his homeland.

the origins of the song are unclear, but it has been traced to an irish language song, the sick young lover .

the song has been recorded by many well-known performers including declan affley, dominic behan, joan baez, de dannan, charlotte church, loreena mckennitt and peter o'toole.


lyrics.

i wish i was in carrickfergus,
only for nights in ballygrant;
i would swim over the deepest ocean,
for my love to find;

but the sea is wide and i cannot cross over;
and neither have i the wings to fly;
i wish i could meet a handsome boatsman;
to ferry me over, to my love and die;

my childhood days bring back sad reflections;
of happy times i spent so long ago,
my boyhood friends and my own relations;
have all passed on now like melting snow.

but i'll spend my days in endless roaming,
soft is the grass, my bed is free.
ah, to be back now in carrickfergus,
on that long road down to the sea.

now in kilkenny, it is reported,
on marble stones there as black as ink;
with gold and silver i would support her,
but i'll sing no more 'till i get a drink.

for i'm drunk today, and i'm seldom sober,
a handsome rover from town to town,
ah, but i'm sick now, my days are numbered,
come all you young men and lay me down.






</doc>
<doc id="5611544" title="contrast (music)" nonfiltered="114" processed="113" dbindex="114">
in music and musical form, procedures of contrast include stratification, juxtaposition, and interpolation. procedures of connection include gradation, amalgamation, and dissolution. contrast is also when you compare two different instrument sounds to each other.



</doc>
<doc id="880336" title="bobby's world" nonfiltered="115" processed="114" dbindex="115">


bobby's world is a children's animated television series, which ran from 1990 to 1998, on fox. it was about the daily life of bobby generic (pronounced jen-er-ick, unlike the adjective that is pronounced ji-ner-ick) and his very overactive imagination on how he sees the world.  this show was created by howie mandel (now the host of nbc's deal or no deal), who was also the voice of four-year-old bobby (as well as bobby's father, who looks just like a cartoon version of howie himself), and was produced by film roman for fox television studios and fox kids network.  in a recent online interview, mandel expressed his desire for a possible re-launch of the series. on september 28, 2006, mandel mentioned on the ellen degeneres show that the series will be returning in 2007, in addition to doing his job hosting deal or no deal. he further mentioned that the series was returning on the late late show with craig ferguson. while he did not mention it during his november 15, 2006 appearance on late night with conan o'brian he wore a shirt that read "generic rules", a possible reference to bobby's last name.

history.

the character of "bobby" can likely be traced back to mandel's days as a stand up comedian in canada and later the united states. mandel would commonly go into character with the same voice as bobby, often conversing with an unseen "parent". .

show format.

episodes often consist of a short live action segment either before or after the main story (and sometimes both before and after). the segment would include mandel describing some aspect of the story and often relating it back to his personal childhood.
sometimes during these segments, the character of bobby would appear in animated form and converse with mandel. other times, a live action child would appear and exchange words with mandel. endings of the show also featured a form of mandel breaking the proverbial fourth wall by talking to the audience about the episode

characters.
bobby generic, 4-year old protagonist;
howard generic, bobby's father (modeled upon and also voiced by howie mandel);
martha generic, bobby's mother, who speaks with a heavy minnesota accent and often punctuates her speech with odd phrases like "fer cryin' in the mud" and "don't'cha know".
kelly generic, bobby's 14-year-old sister;
derek generic, bobby's 10-year-old brother;
the generic twins, bobby's infant brothers;
aunt ruth, bobby's aunt and martha's sister (voice of edie mcclurg);
uncle ted, bobby's uncle and martha's brother (voice of tino insana);
roger, the generic family dog;
jackie, bobby's next door neighbor/classmate with the floor-length pigtails who always kisses him;

episodes.
80 episodes were produced:

season 1.
 the visit to aunt ruth's;
 uncle ted's excellent adventure (on dvd "classic scratch 'n sniff episodes");
 adventures in bobby sitting;
 the best one of the mall;
 my dad can fix anything;
 ultimate seduction;
 the big sweep;
 the night of the living pumpkin;
 beach blanket bobby;
 the revenge of dr. noo;
 in search of the ring bear;
 see america last;
 bobby's big broadcast;

season 2.
 three kids and a baby;
 suspects, lies & videotape (on dvd "the signature episodes");
 race riot;
 nightmare on bobby's street;
 caution: bobby at work;
 total recess;
 chariots of bobby;
 bobby's birthday bash;

season 3.
 bobby's tooth or dare (on dvd "classic scratch 'n sniff episodes");
 bobby's big move (on dvd "the signature episodes");
 bad news bears (a.k.a. i killed mommy);
 swim by me (on dvd "classic scratch 'n sniff episodes");
 the play's the thing;
 fish tales (on dvd "classic scratch 'n sniff episodes");
 the unheard music;
 misery loves company;
 bobby phone home;
 baby brother blues;
 bobby's girl;
 iii effects;
 i want my mommy;

season 4.
 the hero (on dvd "the signature episodes");
 uncle ted's new friend;
 the world accordion to bobby;
 bobby takes the knot;
 jets, choo-choos, and cars (on dvd "classic scratch 'n sniff episodes");
 karate bobby;
 a day with dad;
 psycho bobby;
 the smell of a tattletale;
 blue monday;
 one clump or two;
 bobby's big dream;
 bobby, the musical (on dvd "the signature episodes");

season 5.
 rebel without a clue;
 geriatric park;
 herry takes a powder;
 bobby's big boo-boo;
 mom on wheels;
 weekend at teddie's;
 generics under construction;
 mrs. noogiefire (on dvd "the signature episodes");
 bobby sticker;
 no sale;
 who you gonna call?
 starring bobby (a.k.a. the day i became robert);
 the truth about aunt ruth;

season 6.
 bobby on-line;
 bobby the genius;
 bobby's world: kakyoin's hierophant barrier;
 bobby's last stand;
 miracle on 34th st. & rural route #1;
 just plain sleepless;
 bobby, lord of the slopes;
 helter-skelter;
 time after time;
 independence bobby;
 bobby the candy date;

season 7.
 bad manners bobby;
 roger's ransom;
 cooties;
 promises, promises;
 generics and indians;
 it's a generic life;
 the real folk blues;
 the monster that shouted i;
 the sickness unto death, and...
 the end of bobby's world;

trivia.
 the theme song for bobby's world was composed by john tesh, along with michael hanna.
 the voice of martha generic (as performed by gail matthius) was based on the voice of roweena, a character that matthius performed on saturday night live.
 in the us, during the show's final season on-air, the show was open-captioned for the hearing-impaired; this was done by using the show's closed-captions in a way that all viewers could see them. this is despite the fact that most network programming by this time were closed-captioned, and most televisions made after 1993 had closed-captioning capabilities.

 dvd releases .
 classic scratch 'n' sniff episodes and the signature episodes are both released on dvd in north america by anchor bay entertainment.

credits.
based on a character created by: howie mandel;
executive producers: phil roman, margaret loesch, howie mandel;
producer: gary conrad;
supervising producer: mitch schauer;
developers & creative consultants: jim staahl, jim fisher;
story editor: diane dixon;
co producers: jim staahl, jim fisher, diane dixon;
directors: ron myrick, robert treat, bernie wolf, jeff hall, john peters;
supervising directors: john conning, bob curtis;
production supervisors: jason bikowski, jeff curtis;
assistant background designer: charles payne;
storyboard: stark howell, adam dykstra, brian hogan, bob boyle, jim schumann;
art director: brad landreth;
lip sync editors: kent holaday, mario williams, jack white, christina ;
additional backgrounds: neil affleck, james beihold, fred crippen, michael diederich, david mcbride, aaron crippen;
background layout checker: lorraine marue;
color key: stephen lee, libby reed;
executives in charge of production: bill schultz, kenneth t. ito;
studio production manager: anne luiting;
executive in charge of post production: barney gilmore;
voice recording: screen music studios;
voice direction: ginny mcswain;
sound editors: charles rychwalski, brian f. mars, michael bradley, bill kean;
foley artist: joseph t. sabella;
re-recording mixer: timothy borquez;
music supervisor: dean olawski;
music editors: roy braverman, william griggs, alex wilkinson;
theme music by: john tesh, michael hanna;
music by: john tesh, mark koval;
overseas supervisors: glenn kirkpatrick, russell crispin;
production facilities: cuckoo's nest studios, wang film production co. ltd;
a film roman production for fox kids;
copyright:   & \a91990-1997 fox children's network, inc. bobby's world is a registered trademark of alevy productions, inc.

external links.
 bobby's world site at howiemandel.com;
 ;
 bobby's world at tv.com;
 toon tracker audio file - the bobby's world theme;
 bobby's world at crown combo;










</doc>
<doc id="6083110" title="steve cooke" nonfiltered="116" processed="115" dbindex="116">
steve cooke (born january 14, 1970 in lihue, hawaii), is a former professional baseball player who pitched in the major leagues from 1992-1994 and 1996-1998.

teams.

 pittsburgh pirates 1992-1994, 1996-1997;

 cincinnati reds 1998;

career stats.

 104 games;

 26 wins;

 36 losses;

 335 strikeouts;

 4.31 era;

external links.

 http://www.baseball-reference.com/c/cookest01.shtml;









</doc>
<doc id="3136942" title="caroline kirkland" nonfiltered="117" processed="116" dbindex="117">
caroline kirkland (january 12, 1801   april 6, 1864) was an american writer. 

she was born into a middle class family in new york city, the oldest of eleven children. her mother was a writer of fiction and poetry. her father died when she was 21 and the family followed her to upstate new york where she taught and had met her future husband, william kirkland. the death of her father had made her mainly responsible for the rest of the family. she married william in 1828 and they settled in geneva, new york  where they founded the domestic school. they had five children (one of whom died) before they left geneva.

in 1835 the kirklands moved to the then frontier town of detroit, michigan and in 1837 they founded the village of pinckney on land that william had purchased. it was there that caroline had success with her first book,  a new home; who'll follow. she wrote another book about life in the settlements, forest life, while still in michigan. the kirklands left michigan in 1843 because their venture to establish the town of pinckney was not a financial success, and because they felt shut out by the reactions of their neighbors to mrs. kirkland's frank revelations of frontier life. a third book based on frontier life, western clearings,  came out in 1845, after she had returned with her family to new york city.

in new york william kirkland entered the newspaper business as editor of the new york evening mirror, and of his own paper, the christian inquirer. in 1846 an unfortunate accident resulted in his death. mrs. kirkland continued her literary activities until her death in 1864. their son joseph kirkland, who was born in geneva, also became a recognized writer.

on returning to new york, mrs. kirkland opened a school for girls and from 1847 to 1849 was editor of the union magazine. she also entered into the literary social life of the community often entertaining writers, publishers, and other notables. her home was the leading literary salon in the country where edgar allan poe, william cullen bryant, elizabeth drew stoddard, and others frequently assembled. mrs. kirkland went abroad in 1848 and again in 1850. she was received by charles dickens and the brownings, elizabeth barrett browning and robert browning.  she also became a close friend and correspondent of harriet martineau.

kirkland, as attested to by the above names, had considerable fame and accolades from her writings during her lifetime. poe in particular thought of her as a significant american writer. she was a relatively early american woman writer who appears to have written because she liked to write and only published what she considered to be well written. she wrote for men as well as women but definitely wrote from a female perspective. her works continue to be studied in relation to style, contributions to american literature and the influence of the female perspective.

external links.
 ;
 caroline kirkland - bibliographical overview, links to works online;
  scribbling women;






</doc>
<doc id="6903380" title="taisia chenchik" nonfiltered="118" processed="117" dbindex="118">





taisiya filippovna chenchik () (born 30 january, 1936 in priluki) is a soviet athlete who competed mainly in the high jump. at the national level she competed for burevestnik, training in chelyabinsk (1956-62) and in moscow (1963-69).

she competed for the ussr in the 1964 summer olympics held in tokyo, japan in the high jump where she won the bronze medal. she is also the european champion (1963) and 1963 summer universiade champion. 

chenchik was awarded the order of the badge of honor.

external link.
 a short biography;














</doc>
<doc id="9144037" title="kenlake state resort park" nonfiltered="119" processed="118" dbindex="119">
kenlake state resort park is a park located on the western shore of kentucky lake near paducah, kentucky in calloway county. the park encompasses 1,795 acres and features climate-controlled indoor tennis courts. 

references.









</doc>
<doc id="2547960" title="lovek" nonfiltered="120" processed="119" dbindex="120">
lovek was a city in ancient cambodia that became the nation's capital in the 16th century, during which cambodia was often referred to as lovek.



</doc>
<doc id="3386369" title="ashfield local elections" nonfiltered="121" processed="120" dbindex="121">
ashfield council is elected every four years.

political control.
labour 1973 - 2003

no overall control 2003 - 

council elections.
ashfield council election 1999

ashfield council election 2003

by-election results.








































external links.
ashfield council;




</doc>
<doc id="1292792" title="rafael godoy" nonfiltered="122" processed="121" dbindex="122">
rafael godoy was a well-known colombian composer born in natagaima, tolima, in 1907.

from a young age, he was linked to the trade-union movement in barrancabermeja, santander, from where he had to emigrate when his personal security was threatened. he fled to venezuela, where he developed his musical career and composed what are often taken to be his best musical pieces.

it is possibly because of his distancing from the colombian artistic environment of the time that godoy's work is not so wide, and details about his personal life are not widely known.

his most widely known, and possibly best song, is the bambuco "soy colombiano" (i'm colombian); he composed many other less-known bambucos and andean music songs, such as "arrunchaditos", "pasito", "mi cafetal", "canto a colombia", "tierra caliente" and many others.

many versions of "soy colombiano" have appeared since it was composed, even a vallenato version by lisandro meza, although the most popular version is the one from the tolimense folk music duet garz\f3n y collazos.

rafael godoy died in caracas, venezuela, on march 14, 1973.

external link.
a brief history of godoy's life and works (in spanish);






</doc>
<doc id="1682298" title="asymptotically flat spacetime" nonfiltered="123" processed="122" dbindex="123">


an asymptotically flat spacetime is a lorentzian manifold in which, roughly speaking, the curvature vanishes at large distances from some region, so that at large distances, the geometry becomes indistinguishable from that of minkowski spacetime.

while this notion makes sense for any lorentzian manifold, it is most often applied to a spacetime standing as a solution to the field equations of some metric theory of gravitation, particularly general relativity.  in this case, we can say that an asymptotically flat spacetime is one in which the gravitational field, as well as any matter or other fields which may be present, become negligible in magnitude at large distances from some region.  in particular, in an asymptotically flat vacuum solution, the gravitational field (curvature) becomes negligible at large distances from the source of the field (typically some isolated massive object such as a star).

intuitive significance.
the condition of asymptotic flatness is analogous to similar conditions in mathematics and in other physical theories.  such conditions say that some physical field or mathematical function is asymptotically vanishing in a suitable sense.

in general relativity, an asymptotically flat vacuum solution models the exterior gravitational field of an isolated massive object.  therefore, such a spacetime can be considered as examples of isolated systems in the sense in which this term is used in physics in general.  (isolated systems are ones which in which exterior influences can be neglected.)  indeed, physicists rarely imagine a universe containing a single star and nothing else when they construct an asymptotically flat model of a star; rather, they are interested in modeling the interior of the star together with an exterior region in which gravitational effects due to the presence of other objects, such as "nearby" stars, can be neglected.  since typical distances between astrophysical bodies tend to be much larger than the diameter of each body, we often can get way with this idealization, which usually helps to greatly simplify the construction and analysis of solutions.

some examples and nonexamples.
only spacetimes which model an isolated object are asymptotically flat.  many other familiar exact solutions, such as the frw dust models (which are homogeneous spacetimes and therefore in a sense at the opposite end of the spectrum from asymptotically flat spacetimes), are not.

a simple example of an asymptotically flat spacetime is the schwarzschild vacuum solution.  more generally, the kerr vacuum is also asymptotically flat.  but another well known generalization of the schwarzschild vacuum, the nut vacuum, is not asymptotically flat.  an even simpler generalization, the schwarzschild-de sitter lambdavacuum solution (sometimes called the k\f6ttler solution), which models a spherically symmetric massive object immersed in a de sitter universe, is an example of an asymptotically simple spacetime which is not asymptotically flat.  

on the other hand, there are important large families of solutions which are asymptotically flat, such as the af weyl vacuums and their rotating generalizations, the af ernst vacuums (the family of all stationary axisymmetric and asymptoticallly flat vacuum solutions).  these families are given by the solution space of a much simplified family of partial differential equations, and their metric tensors can be written down (say in a prolate spheroidal chart)
in terms of an explicit multipole expansion.

a coordinate-dependent definition.
the simplest (and historically the first) way of defining an asymptotically flat spacetime assumes that we have a coordinate chart, with coordinates , which far from the origin behaves much like a cartesian chart on minkowski spacetime, in the following sense.  write the metric tensor as the sum of a (physically unobservable) minkowski background plus a perturbation tensor, , and set .  then we require:
;
;
;
one reason why we require the partial derivatives of the perturbation to decay so quickly is that these conditions turn out to imply that the gravitational field energy density (to the extent that this somewhat nebulous notion makes sense in a metric theory of gravitation) decays like , which would be physically sensible.  (in classical electromagnetism, the energy of the electromagnetic field of a point charge decays like .)

a coordinate-free definition.
around 1962, hermann bondi, rainer sachs, and others began to study the general phenomenon of radiation from a compact source in general relativity, which requires more flexible definitions of asymptotic flatness.  in 1963, roger penrose imported from algebraic geometry the essential innovation, now called conformal compactification, and in 1972, robert geroch used this to circumvent the tricky problem of suitably defining and evaluating suitable limits in formulating a truly coordinate-free definition of asymptotic flatness.  in the new approach, once everything is properly set up, one need only evaluate functions on a locus in order to verify asymptotic flatness.

utility.
the notion of asymptotic flatness is extremely useful as a technical condition in the study of exact solutions in general relativity and allied theories.  there are several reasons for this:
models of physical phenomena in general relativity (and allied physical theories) generally arise as the solution of appropriate systems of differential equations, and assuming asymptotic flatness provides boundary conditions which assist in setting up and even in solving the resulting boundary value problem.
in metric theories of gravitation such as general relativity, it is usually not possible to give general definitions of important physical concepts such as mass and angular momentum; however, assuming asympotical flatness allows one to employ convenient definitions which do make sense for asymptotically flat solutions.
while this is less obvious, it turns out that invoking asympotic flatness allows physicists to import sophisticated mathematical concepts from algebraic geometry and differential topology in order to define and study important features such as event horizons which may or may not be present.

objections.
the notion of asympotic flatness in gravitation physics has been criticized on both theoretical and technical grounds.

there is no difficulty whatever in obtaining models of static spherically symmetric stellar models, in which a perfect fluid interior is matched across a spherical surface, the surface of the star, to a vacuum exterior which is in fact a region of the schwarzschild vacuum.  in fact, it is possible to write down all these static stellar models in a way which makes clear that they exist in plenitude.  given this success, it may come as a nasty shock that it seems to be very difficult, mathematically speaking, to construct rotating stellar models in which a perfect fluid interior is matched to an asymptotically flat vacuum exterior.  this observation is the basis of the most prominent technical objection to the notion of asymptotic flatness in general relativity.

before explaining this objection in more detail, it seems appropriate to briefly discuss an often overlooked point about physical theories in general.

asymptotic flatness is an idealization, and a very useful one, both in our current "gold standard" theory of gravitation -- general relativity -- and in the simpler theory it "overthrew", newtonian gravitation.  one might expect that as a (so far mostly hypothetical) sequence of increasingly sophisticated theories of gravitation provide more and more accurate models of fundamental physics, these theories will become monotonically more "powerful".  but this hope is probably naive: we should expect a monotonically increasing range of choices in making various theoretical tradeoffs, rather than monotonic "improvement".  in particular, as our physical theories become more and more accurate, we should expect that it will become harder and harder to employ idealizations with the same ease with which we can invoke them in more forgiving (that is, less restrictive) theories.  this is because more accurate theories necessarily demand setting up more accurate boundary conditions, which can render it difficult to see how to set up some idealization familiar in a simpler theory in a more sophisticated theory.  indeed, we must expect that some idealizations admitted by previous theories may not be admitted at all by succeeding theories.  

this phenomenon can be both a blessing and a curse.  for example, we have just noted that some physicists hold that more sophisticated theories of gravitation will not admit any notion of an isolated point particle.   indeed, some argue that general relativity does not do so, despite the existence of the schwarzschild vacuum solution.  if these physicists are correct, we would gain a kind of self-abnegating intellectual honesty or realism, but we would pay a hefty price, since few idealizations have proven as fruitful in physics as the notion of a point particle (however troublesome it has been even in simpler theories).

be this as it may, very few examples of exact solutions modeling isolated and rotating objects in general relativity are presently known.   in fact, the list of useful solutions presently consists of the neugebauer-meinel dust (which models a rigidly rotating thin (finite radius) disk of dust surrounded by an asymptotically flat vacuum region) and a few variants.  in particular, there is no known perfect fluid source which can be matched to a kerr vacuum exterior, as one would expect in order to create the simplest possible model of a rotating star.  this is surprising because of the plenitude of fluid interiors which match to schwarzschild vacuum exteriors.

indeed, if some argue that an interior solution which matches to the kerr vacuum, which has petrov type d, should also be type d.  there is in fact a known perfect fluid solution, the wahlquist fluid, which is petrov type d and which has a definite surface across which one can attempt to match to a vacuum exterior.  however, it turns out that the wahlquist fluid cannot be matched to any asymptotically flat vacuum region.  in particular, contrary to naive expectation, it cannot be matched to a kerr vacuum exterior.  a tiny minority of physicists (actually, a minority of one) appear to believe that general relativity is unacceptable because it does not allow sufficiently general asymptotically flat solutions (evidently this argument implicitly assumes that we have decisively rejected at least some machian principles!), but a sequence of increasingly sophisticated and general existence results appears to contradict this assumption.

the mainstream viewpoint among physicists about these matters can probably be summarized by saying as follows:
while many prominent researchers have tried to invoke machian principles (including albert einstein and john archibald wheeler), the status of these principles, in contrast to widely accepted principles like the principle of conservation of momentum, is currently highly equivocal,
general relativity admits a sufficient variety of solutions to model (in principle) any realistic astrophysical situation, plus (apparently) many highly unrealistic ones.

see also.
fluid solution, for more about perfect fluid solutions in general relativity.

references.
for more about coordinate-free definitions of asymptotic flatness, see

.  see section 6.9 for a discussion of asymptotically simple spacetimes.
  see chapter 11.
;

on the rotating fluid problem raised by mark roberts, see:

 eprint  the authors argue that boundary value problems in general relativity, such as the problem matching a given perfect fluid interior to an asymptoically flat vacuum exterior, are overdetermined.  this doesn't imply that no models of a rotating star exist, but it helps to explain why they seem to be hard to construct.
mark d. roberts, spacetime exterior to a star: against asymptotic flatness.  version dated may 16 2002.  roberts attempts to argue that the exterior solution in a model of a rotating star should be a perfect fluid or dust rather than a vacuum, and then argues that there exist no asymptotically flat rotating perfect fluid solutions in general relativity.  (note: mark roberts is an occasional contributor to wikipedia, including this article.
 eprint  mars introduces a rotating spacetime of petrov type d which includes the well-known wahlquist fluid and kerr-newman electrovacuum solutions as special case.
maccallum, m. a. h.; mars, m.; and vera, r. second order perturbations of rotating bodies in equilibrium: the exterior vacuum problem this is a short review by three leading experts of the current state-of-the-art on constructing exact solutions which model isolated rotating bodies (with an asymptotically flat vacuum exterior).



</doc>
<doc id="177454" title="russian airborne troops" nonfiltered="124" processed="123" dbindex="124">


the  russian airborne troops or vdv ( from "vozdushno-desantnye voyska" russian:         -                 =    ) is an arm of service of the armed forces of the russian federation, on a par with the strategic rocket forces and the space troops. the airborne troops are the most capable mobile assault forces of russia, as they are airborne forces in the first place.

soviet era.
originally formed in the soviet union during the mid 1930s, they were massively expanded during world war ii, where they formed up to ten airborne corps with numerous independent airborne brigades, with most or all achieving "guards" status. one of the new units was the 100th airborne division. at the end of the war they were reconstituted as guards rifle divisions. they were later rebuilt and eventually formed seven air assault divisions. with an independent air assault regiment and up to sixteen air assault brigades. they were formed into their own vdv command to give the soviets a rapid strike force to spearhead strategic military operations. 


in 1989, the airborne forces consisted of:
7th airborne division (kaunas, lithuanian ssr);
76th airborne division (pskov, rsfsr);
98th airborne division (bolgrad & kishinev, moldovan ssr);
103rd airborne division (vitebsk);
104th guards airborne division (kirovabad, azerbaijan ssr);
106th guards airborne division (tula, rsfsr);
242nd training centre of the airborne forces (jonava, lithuanian ssr);
345th independent guards airborne regiment (gudauta, georgian ssr);
11th air assault brigade;
13th air assault brigade;
14th, 21st, 23rd, 35th, 36th, 37th, 38th, 39th, 40th, 56th, 83rd, 95th, 100th air assault brigades;
171st independent communications brigade (medvezhi ozera, moscow military district, rsfsr);

after the fall of the soviet union.

with the demise of the soviet union, the number of vdv divisions has shrunk from seven to four, as well as one brigade:
7th airborne division, novorossiysk;
76th air assault division, pskov;
98th airborne division, ivanovo;
106th airborne division, tula;
31st airborne brigade, ulyanovsk;

two other air assault brigades are partially infantry formations reporting directly to the military districts they are stationed in. the vdv's training institute is the ryazan institute for the airborne troops named for v. margelov. in the early 1990s, general pavel grachev, first russian defence minister planned for the vdv to form the core of the planned mobile forces. this was announced in red star (krasnaya zvezda) in july 1992. however, the mobile forces plan never eventuated. the number of formations available for the force was far less than anticipated, since much of the airborne forces had been 'nationalised' by the republics their units had been previously based in, and other arms of service, such as the gru and military transport aviation, who were to provide the airlift component, were adamantly opposed to ceding control of their forces.

furthermore, 104th parachute landing regiment of 76th airborne division is the only russian land forces regiment, that is fully composed of professional soldiers (and not of "srochniki" - the conscripted soldiers aged eighteen). it should be noted however that an additional major contractorisation of many many units across the russian armed forces is now under way. it was announced that the 98th airborne division is also earmarked for contractorisation.

unlike western airborne units which must walk when they arrive at their destination, the vdv divisions are mechanized with over 250 armored fighting vehicles, the bmd-3 family of vehicles. vdv units have superior mobility with these vehicles and superior firepower, each division has three regiments equipped with them and their derivatives. the single independent brigade, the 31st at ulyanovsk, however, is not equipped with its own armor or artillery and may be equivalent to western airborne, in that it functions as light infantry and must walk when reaching their destination. the 31st was the former 104th guards airborne division.



vdv troops participated in the rapid deployment of russian forces in and around pristina airport during the kosovo war, surprising nato. they also were deployed in chechnya as an active bridgehead for other forces to follow.

a vdv unit, the 45th orpsn (separate reconnaissance regiment of special designation), that reportedly performed brilliantly in chechnya during the second campaign, was said to actually represent a spetznaz gru unit, which was later proven untrue.  

in 2004, the russian mod announced that the vdv will be re-equipped with new apc vehicles of the bmd-4 type (ria novosti, december 20th, 2004). however, it is unlikely that this reorganization will happen in the years to come due to lack of funding and resistance from within the vdv. 

russian airborne troops had their own holiday during the soviet era, which continues to be celebrated on the 2nd of august. 

notable former airborne forces officers include aleksandr lebed, who was involved in responses to disorder in the caucasus republics in the last years of the soviet union, and pavel grachev who went on to become the first minister of defence of the russian federation.

references.
pavel baev, the russian army in a time of troubles, international peace research institute, oslo, 1996, p.127-135;
carey schofield, the russian elite: inside spetsnaz and the airborne forces, stackpole/greenhill, 1993;
http://www8.brinkster.com/vad777/sssr-89-91/vdv.htm;
airborne assault troops (vdv) on globalsecurity.org;

russian vdv;

external links.
unofficial website of vdv russian only;
website of "for vdv!" russian only;
association of vdv veterans russian only;
history of vdv on pobeda.ru russian only;
soviet airborne "english site";















</doc>
<doc id="65755" title="yeti" nonfiltered="125" processed="124" dbindex="125">


the abominable snowman is a humanoid cryptid associated with the himalaya.  the names yeti or meh-teh are commonly used by people indigenous to the himalaya, and are part of their history and mythology. 

most mainstream scientists, explorers and writers with experience of the area, consider current evidence of the yeti's existence to be weak and better explained as hoax, legend, or misidentification of known species. nevertheless, the yeti remains one of the most famous creatures of cryptozoology.

 nomenclature .
the name yeti is derived from the tibetan yeh-teh (), a compound of the words yeh () meaning "rocky" or "rocky place" and ti, te or teh () which  translates as "bear", the full name being "rock bear".

pranavananda goes on further to illustrate the root of the words "ti", "te" and "teh" in that they are derived from the spoken word  'tre'  (spelled "dred"),  tibetan for bear, with the 'r' softly pronounced as to be almost inaudible, thus making it "te" or "teh".

other terms, used by the indigenous peoples of the himalaya, do not all translate exactly the same, but refer to both legend and indigenous wildlife.

 meh-teh () translates as "man-bear";
 dzu-teh - 'dzu' translates as "cattle" and the full meaning translates as "cattle bear" and is the himalayan red bear.;
 migoi or mi-go () (pronounced mey-goo) translates as "wild man" (.;
 mirka - another name for "wild-man", however as local legend has it "anyone who sees one dies or is killed". the latter is taken from a written statement by frank smythe's sherpas in 1937.;
 kang admi - "snow man";
 jo-bran - "man-beast";

animals that live in the himalaya, known to tibetans, nepalese and mammologists,  that are directly linked with the yeti phenomena are the chu-teh, a langur monkey  living at lower altitudes, the tibetan blue bear, the himalayan brown bear and the dzu-teh which is the himalayan red bear.

the term yeti is often used to describe a number of very different reported creatures:

 a large ape-like biped (that some suggest could be a gigantopithecus);
 human-sized bipedal apes (the almas and the chinese wildman);
 dwarf-like creatures (such as the orang pendek).

the term is also often used to refer to reported creatures that fits any of these descriptions: for example, the fear liath may be referred to as the "scottish yeti".

neil gaiman propsed that the word yeti literally translated as "that thing over there." as in "honored sherpa, what is that thing over there?" "yeti."

 the origin of the "abominable snowman" .
the appellation "abominable snowman" did not come into existence until 1921, in that year lieutenant-colonel charles howard-bury lead the royal geographical society's "everest reconnaissance expedition" from which he authored "mount everest the reconnaissance, 1921" in his book he wrote, amongst the details of the expedition, of an account, whilst crossing the "lhakpa-la" at 21,000 feet  where, he later wrote, he found footprints in the snow.  howard-bury stated that these tracks "were probably caused by a large 'loping' grey wolf, which in the soft snow formed double tracks rather like a those of a barefooted man".  however howard-bury also stated that "our coolies at once volunteered that the tracks must be that of "the wild man of the snows", to which they gave the name "metoh-kangmi"".  "metoh" translates as "man bear"  and "kang-mi" translates as "snowman".

confusion exists between howard-bury's use of "metoh-kangmi", the words his boatia sherpa's had used and recited in his book and the account provided in h.w. tilman's book "mount everest, 1938" where tilman had used the words "metch" (it has been suggested that "metch" does not exist in tibetan and "kangmi" when relating the details of and the eventual creation of the term "abominable snowman". further weight is added to the notion that "metch" is a misnomer, is provided by prof. david snellgrove from london school of oriental studies and a recognised authority on the tibetan language (1956), dismissed the word "metch" stating that it was impossible to conjoin the consonants  "t c h" in tibetan.". documentation does seem to suggest that there are very few examples of the term "metch-kangmi",  the term seems to stem from just the one source in 1921.  it has been suggested that "metch" is a misspelling of "metoh".

the involvement of mr. henry newman, who contributed for many years to "the statesman" in calcutta using the pen-name "kim", spoke with the porters of the "everest reconnaissance expedition" on return to darjeeling, and for whatever reason newman either by artistic license or a mistranslation of "metoh" as "filthy" or "dirty", which as has been demonstrated it does not mean, created the term "abominable". some credence to the suggestion that newman's artistic predilection played a role is the statement made by h.w. tilman in his book, that "as he (newman) wrote long after in a letter to the times: the whole story seemed such a joyous creation i sent it to one or two newspapers'".

"whatever effect mr. newman intended, from 1921 onwards the yeti-or whatever various native populations choose to call it- became saddled with the description "abominable snowman," an appellation which can only appeal to the music-hall mind than to mammalogists, a fact which has seriously handicapped earnest seekers of the truth", a view supported by and sanderson

"it cannot be denied however that mr. newman put the yeti "on the map".  during the twenties and thirties sightings of both of prints and of the animal itself occurred right across the himalaya from the burmese frontier to the karakoram, not all of them by credulous witnesses.".

 the 1954 pangboche scalp investigation .




the  daily mail "snowman expedition" of 1954, on march 19 printed an article, where the expedition teams obtained and submitted specimens of hairs from the scalp in pangboche monastery. the research on the hair was conducted by professor frederic wood jones, f.r.s, d.sc., (who died on september 29 1954) and an expert in human and comparative anatomy.

the research consisted of taking micro-photographs of the hairs and comparing them with hairs from known animals such as the bear and orangutan.

he (professor woods-jones) was of the opinion that the evidence of the hairs and the photographs, from the pangboche monastery "scalp", proved it was not a scalp of any type.  the reason for this is that although some animals have a ridge of hair beginning at the top of the head and extending between the shoulders to the back, he did not believe that any animals have a ridge such as shown in the photographs of the pangboche relic running from the base of the forehead across the top of the head and ending at the back of the neck"

the hairs were black or dark brown in colour in dull light, and a "foxy-red" in sunlight. none of these had been dyed and they were probably exceedingly old.

the hairs were bleached, cut into sections and compared microscopically with those of known animals. wood-jones was unable to suggest from what animal the pangboche hairs were taken.  he was, however convinced they are not the hairs of an anthropoid ape, nor of a bear.  he suggests they may come from the hair of a coarse-haired hoofed animal, but not from its head; they may be from its shoulder.

 events .
 19th century .
in 1832, the journal of the asiatic society of bengal published the account of b. h. hodgson, who wrote that while trekking in northern nepal, his native guides spotted a tall, bipedal creature covered with long dark hair, then fled in fear. hodgson did not see the creature, but concluded it was an orangutan.

an early record of reported footprints appeared in 1889 in l.a. waddell's among the himalayas he reported his native guides described a large apelike creature that left the prints, but concluded the prints were made by a bear. waddell heard stories of bipedal, apelike creatures, but wrote that of the many witnesses he questioned, none "could ever give me an authentic case. on the most superficial investigation it always resolved into something that somebody had heard of." 

 early 20th century .
the frequency of reports increased in the early 20th century, when westerners began making determined attempts to climb the many mountains in the area and sometimes reported seeing odd creatures or strange tracks.

in 1925, n.a. tombazi, a photographer  and member of the royal geographical society, saw a creature at about 15,000 ft  near zemu glacier. tombazi later wrote that he observed the creature from about 200 or 300 yards, for about one minute. "unquestionably, the figure in outline was exactly like a human being, walking upright and stopping occasionally to pull at some dwarf rhododendron bushes. it showed up dark against the snow, and as far as i could make out, wore no clothes."  about two hours later, tombazi and his companions descended the mountain, and saw what they took to be the creature's prints, described as "similar in shape to those of a man, but only six to seven inches long by four inches wide....  the prints were undoubtedly those of a biped."

 late 20th century .
western interest in the yeti peaked dramatically in the 1950s. while attempting to scale mount everest in 1951, eric shipton took photographs of a number of large prints in the snow, at about 6,000 m (19,685 ft) above sea level. these photos have been subject to intense study and debate. some argue they are the best evidence of yeti's reality, but others contend the prints are from a mundane creature and have been distorted and enlarged by the melting snow.

in 1953, sir edmund hillary and tenzing norgay reported seeing large footprints while scaling mount everest. hillary would later discount yeti reports as unreliable.

during the daily mail snowman expedition of 1954, the largest search of its kind, the mountaineering leader john angelo jackson, made the first trek from everest to kangchenjunga and in the process photographed symbolic paintings of the yeti at thyangboche gompa. jackson tracked and also photographed many footprints in the snow, many of which were identifiable. however, there were many large footprints which could not be identified. the flattened footprint-like indentations were attributed to erosion and subsequent widening of the original footprint by wind and particle action.

beginning in 1957, tom slick, an american who had made a fortune in oil, funded a few missions to investigate yeti reports. in 1959, feces reportedly from a yeti were collected by slick's expedition. analysis found a parasite but could not classify it. bernard heuvelmans wrote that "since each animal has its own parasites, this indicated that the host animal is equally an unknown animal." 

in 1959, actor jimmy stewart, while visiting india, reportedly smuggled the remains of a supposed yeti, the so-called pangboche hand, by hiding them in his luggage when he flew from india to london.

in 1960, sir edmund hillary mounted an expedition to collect and evaluate evidence for the yeti and sent a yeti scalp from the khumjung monastery to the west for testing. the results indicated that the scalp had been manufactured from the skin of the serow, a goat-like himalayan antelope. but some disagreed with this analysis. shackley said they "pointed out that hairs from the scalp look distinctly monkey-like, and that it contains parasitic mites of a species different from that recovered from the serow."

in 1970, british mountaineer don whillans says he saw a creature while scaling annapurna. while scouting for a campsite, whillans heard some odd cries. his sherpa guide told him the sound was a yeti's call. that night, reported whillans, he saw a dark shape moving near his camp. the next day, whillans observed a few human like footprints in the snow, and that evening, he asserted that with binoculars, he watched a bipedal, ape-like creature for about 20 minutes as it apparently searched for food not far from his camp. 

 analysis .
the anthropologist john napier (primatologist) in his book "bigfoot: the yeti and sasquatch in myth and reality", a detailed collation of writings, first hand reports and analysis on the subject, argued that amongst what evidence there is for the yeti, "unlike the sasquatch, there is little uniformity of pattern, and what uniformity there is incriminates the bear".

in 2003, japanese mountaineer makoto nebuka published the results of his 12-year linguistic study and postulated that the word "yeti" is actually a corruption of the word "meti" - a regional dialect term for "bear". the ethnic tibetans fear and worship the bear (as in many traditional cultures) as a supernatural being. nebuka's claims were subject to almost immediate criticism, however, and nebuka was accused of linguistic carelessness. dr raj kumar pandey, for example, who has also researched both yetis and mountain languages, said "it is not enough to blame tales of the mysterious beast of the himalayas on words that rhyme but mean different things."

many cryptozoologists,  after examining eye-witness reports and statistical evidence, have concluded that yeti reports are misidentification of mundane creatures. well-financed expeditions have turned up little positive evidence of its existence, although one expedition to bhutan did retrieve a hair sample that, after dna analysis, could not be matched to any known animal.

in 1997, italian mountaineer reinhold messner claimed to have come face to face with a yeti. he has since written a book, my quest for the yeti, and also claims to have actually killed one. according to messner, the yeti is actually the endangered himalayan brown bear, ursus arctos isabellinus, that can walk upright or on all fours.

enthusiasts speculate that these reported creatures could be present-day specimens of the extinct giant ape gigantopithecus, as the only evidence (other than teeth) recovered from gigantopithecus (its jawbone) indicates a skull rested upon a vertical spinal column (as in hominines and other bipedal apes such as oreopithecus). however, while the yeti is usually described as bipedal, most scientists feel that gigantopithicus was probably  quadrupedal, and so massive that unless it evolved specifically as a bipedal ape (like oreopithecus and the hominids) upright walking would have been even more difficult for the now extinct primate than it is for its extant quadrupedal relative, the orangutan.

 the yeti in popular culture .


the yeti has become a cultural icon, appearing in movies, books and video games. mainly this is in the abominable snowman style, but occasionally as comic relief. in 2006, disney opened a ride called "expedition everest" in animal kingdom in walt disney world. inside the waiting area lays a yeti museum, complete with yeti-wrecked items and cement encased footprints.

 citations .


 references .
 john napier (primatologist) (mrcs, ircs, dsc) "bigfoot: the yeti and sasquatch in myth and reality" 1972  isbn 0-525-06658-6.
 sir francis younghusband the epic of mount everest by 1926, edward arnold & co. the expedition that inadvertently coined the term "abominable sbowman";
 charles howard-bury, "mount everest the reconnaissance", 1921, edward arnold, isbn 1-135-39935-2.
 h.w. tilman, "mount everest 1938", appendix b, pp. 127-137,  pilgrim publishing. isbn 81-7769-175-9.
 john a. jackson, more than mountains, chapter 10 (pp 92) & 11, "prelude to the snowman expedition & the snowman expedition", george harrap & co, 1954;
 ralph izzard, the abominable snowman adventure, this is the detailed account by the daily mail correspondent on the 1954 expedition to find the "snowman", hodder and staoughton, 1955.
 charles stonor, the sherpa and the snowman, recounts the 1955 dail mail "abominable snowman expedition" by the scientific officer of the expedition, this is a very detailed analysis of not just the "snowman" but the flora and fauna of the himalaya and its people. hollis and carter, 1955.
 john a. jackson, adventure travels in the himalaya chapter 17, "everest and the elusive snowman", 1954 updated material, indus publishing company, 2005, isbn 81-7387-175-2.
 jerome clark, unexplained! 347 strange sightings, incredible occurrences, and puzzling physical phenomena, visible ink press, 1993.
 bernard heuvelmans, on the track of unknown animals, hill and wang, 1958;
 reinhold messner, my quest for the yeti: confronting the himalayas' deepest mystery, new york: st. martin's press, 2000, isbn 0-312-20394-2;
 gardner soule, trail of the abominable snowman, new york: g.p. putnam's sons, 1966, isbn 0-399-60642-4.

 see also .
 yeren;
 yowie;

 external links .

 yeh-teh "that thing out there";
 the unmuseum's yeti page;
 yeti, the abominable snowman - from occultopedia;
 a theory of yeti (this site is in french);
 the cryptid zoo: yetis;
 migo;

























</doc>
<doc id="8169621" title="wall intermediate school" nonfiltered="126" processed="125" dbindex="126">
wall intermediate school is a school in wall township, new jersey that educates children grades 6-8. the principal is rosaleen sirchio and the assistant principals are thomas ridoux and tiffany steiner. teachers include michael o'keefe, joanne lackett, mandy harpootlian, marylou clancy and patricia o'donnel.

external links.





this school is fantasic for children and you better come right now.

</doc>
<doc id="7131531" title="faa/ast" nonfiltered="127" processed="126" dbindex="127">
faa/ast is the faa's office of commercial space transportation.

the federal aviation administration's office of the associate administrator for commercial space transportation (ast) is the u.s. government organization responsible for regulating and facilitating the safe operations and international competitiveness of the u.s. commercial space transportation industry.

it is responsible for licensing private space vehicles and spaceports within the us.
this is in contrast with nasa that is a research and development agency of the us federal government, and as such neither operates nor regulates the commercial space transportation industry. the regulatory responsibility for the industry falls to the federal aviation administration, which is a regulatory agency. nasa does, however, often use launch satellites and spacecraft on vehicles developed by private companies.

 organization .
 space systems development division (ast-100);
 licensing and safety division (ast-200);
 systems engineering & training division (ast-300);

 history .
it was etablished by an act of congress in 2004.

law: 49 usc, subtitle ix, chapter 701 - commercial space launch activities, gave faa/ast the responsibility to:

 regulate the commercial space transportation industry, only to the extent necessary to ensure compliance with international obligations of the united states and to protect the public health and safety, safety of property, and national security and foreign policy interest of the united states;
 encourage, facilitate, and promote commercial space launches by the private sector;
 recommend appropriate changes in federal statutes, treaties, regulations, policies, plans, and procedures; and;
 facilitate the strengthening and expansion of the united states space transportation infrastructure.

 external references .
 faa/ast ;



</doc>
<doc id="3515119" title="james m. bennett high school" nonfiltered="128" processed="127" dbindex="128">


james m. bennett senior high school is a high school located in salisbury, wicomico county, maryland.  it was established in 1962. it has an enrollment of 1350 in grades nine through twelve, and 110 teachers and assistants. 

it is currently headed by principal clay belgie, who is aided by administration members larry collins, vice principal; amy eskridge, vice principal; and ron green, dean of students. the current building lacks air conditioning and houses more students than its design capacity of 800 students. these conditions lead to student complaints of crowding and discomfort.

james m. bennett high school is currently in the funding stages for a replacement building.  construction is slated to start in 2008, with a goal completion date of 2010.

james m. bennett high school won states championships in golf, basketball, indoor and outdoor track.  also won bayside championships in baseball, lacrosse, soccer - boys and girls, and field hockey.  bennett is the highest performing academic school in wicomico county with great extracurricular activities.

 see also .
 list of high schools in maryland;

external links.
james m. bennett home page;





</doc>
<doc id="9142949" title="mendy samstein" nonfiltered="129" processed="128" dbindex="129">
jehudah menachem mendel "mendy" samstein (july 25 1938 - january 24 2007) was an american civil rights activist. 

born in manhattan, he majored in european history at brandeis, and later earned a master's degree in the same subject from cornell. he was studying for a ph.d. in history at the university of chicago when he quit to join the civil rights movement in the south. he became a full-time organizer for the student nonviolent coordinating committee (or sncc, pronounced "snick"). stokely carmichael, later chairman of sncc, called samstein "one in a million".

later on, samstein also organized protests against the vietnam war. he had a variety of jobs, including working as a teacher, as a psychoanalyst, and running a summer camp. in 2000, he and other civil rights veterans protested the handling of the presidential vote in florida. 

samstein was married to nancy cooper, a fellow civil rights activist. he died from carcinoid cancer at his home in new lisbon, new york, aged 68. 

external links.
obituary at new york times;










</doc>
<doc id="8123344" title="compaq presario v2000z" nonfiltered="130" processed="129" dbindex="130">
the compaq presario v2000z notebook pc series was a 14.1" thin-and-light laptop that was sold by hewlett-packard beginning in august 2005 and was discontinued in september 2006. it was available with amd sempron or turion processors and was based on an ati xpress 200 chipset. it weighs about 5.5 lbs. and was about 1.3" thick. it has a sister laptop version called the compaq presario v2000 or v2000t, and features intel processors.

sources
cnet - http://reviews.cnet.com/compaq_presario_v2000z/4505-3121_7-31447612.html?tag=also;


</doc>
<doc id="5602233" title="the dutchess" nonfiltered="131" processed="130" dbindex="131">



the dutchess (2006) is the solo debut album of american pop singer fergie, a member of the black eyed peas. the title is a misspelling of the title "the duchess of york," as fergie (byname of stacy ferguson) and sarah ferguson, the real duchess of york, share a surname and nickname. will.i.am was an executive producer for the album. ludacris, b-real from cypress hill and rita marley all make guest appearances. fergie has made it clear in interviews that she will still be an active member in the black eyed peas.

released on july 18, 2006, "london bridge" was the dutchess first single. making one of the largest jumps in the billboard hot 100 chart's history, "london bridge" reached the #1 spot for three consecutive weeks. the second single, "fergalicious," was released on october 232006 peaked at #2 on the hot 100. the third single,"glamorous", was released on january 28 2007 and has so far managed to peak at #31 on the hot 100.

the dutchess debuted at #3 on the billboard 200 in the united states with sales of over 150,000.

miscellaneous.
 approximately a minute after the last (13th) track, entitled "finally," there is a bonus track called "maybe we can take a ride.";
 the bridge featured in the video for the single "london bridge" is not london bridge but the next bridge along the river thames, tower bridge.
 at london bridge station, london, a giant poster advertising the album was visible on one of the uk's largest billboard sites in autumn 2006. the poster was clearly visible from the south end of london bridge itself.

track listing.
 u.s. edition;


|- bgcolor="#cccccc"
! # !! width="350" | title !! length
|-
| 1. || "fergalicious" (featuring will.i.am) || 4:52
|-
| 2. || "clumsy" || 4:50
|-
| 3. || "all that i got (the make up song)" (featuring will.i.am)  || 4:05
|-
| 4. || "london bridge" || 4:01
|-
| 5. || "pedestal" || 3:22
|-
| 6. || "voodoo doll" || 4:23
|-
| 7. || "glamorous" (featuring ludacris) || 4:06
|-
| 8. || "here i come" (featuring will.i.am)  || 3:21
|-
| 9. || "velvet" || 4:53
|-
| 10. || "big girls don't cry (personal)"  || 4:28
|-
| 11. || "mary jane shoes" || 3:55
|-
| 12. || "losing my ground" || 4:08
|-
| 13. || "finally" ||4:53
|-
| 14. || "maybe we can take a ride" track after "finally"  || 2:34
|-
|}

bonus tracks.
 u.k/aus edition;

|- bgcolor="#cccccc"
! # !! width="350" | title !! length
|-
| 14. || "get your hands up" track (featuring the black eyed peas) ||3:34
|-
| 15. || "wake up" track || 3:02
|-
| 16. || "maybe we can take a ride" track after "wake up" ||2:34

|}

 itunes edition;

|- bgcolor="#cccccc"
! # !! width="350" | title !! length
|-
| 15. || "wake up"  track on itunes|| 3:01
|-
| 16. || "paradise" track on itunes || 7:41
|-
| 17. || "maybe we can take a ride" track after "paradise" ||2:34
|-
| 18. || "close 2 u" only on itunes || 4:25
|-
| 19. || "thrilla man" only on itunes || 5:04
|}

singles.
"london bridge";
"fergalicious" (featuring will.i.am);
"glamorous" (featuring ludacris);
"here i come" (featuring will.i.am);

charts.
 








external links.
fergie lyrics (inetlyrics.com);
colombian albums charts: http://www.americatop100.com/noticias/viewtopic.php?t=8331&sid=5c55b2e39f33567b007ae70e78810fd3;















</doc>
<doc id="359380" title="lzma" nonfiltered="132" processed="131" dbindex="132">
lzma, short for lempel-ziv-markov chain-algorithm, is a data compression algorithm in development since 1998 and used in the 7z format of the 7-zip archiver. it uses a dictionary compression scheme somewhat similar to lz77 and features a high compression ratio (generally higher than bzip2) and a variable compression-dictionary size (up to 1 gb).

 overview .
the lzma uses an improved lz77 compression algorithm, backed by a range coder.

streams for data, repeated-sequence size and repeated-sequence location seem to be compressed separately.

 7-zip reference implementation .
the reference implementation of lzma is included as part of the 7z and 7-zip suite of tools. source code is distributed under the terms of the gnu lgpl license.

the reference open source lzma compression library is written in c++ and has the following properties:

 compression speed: approximately 1 mb per second on a 2 ghz cpu;
 decompression speed: between 10 and 20 mb per second on a 2 ghz cpu;
 support for multi-threading and for the pentium 4 microprocessor's hyper-threading feature.

the 7-zip implementation uses several variants of hash chains, binary trees and patricia tries as the basis for its dictionary search algorithm.

decompression-only code for lzma generally compiles to around 5kb and the amount of ram required during decompression is principally determined by the size of the sliding window used during compression. small code size and relatively low memory overhead, particularly with smaller dictionary lengths, make the lzma decompression algorithm well-suited to embedded applications.

 portability of the reference implementation .
wide use of microsoft windows-specific features are deeply buried in the source code, meaning that despite the reference implementation being free software it has taken a while for a unix-compatible version to appear.

currently, there are two working ports to unix-like platforms:

 p7zip, a port of 7-zip's 7z and 7za command-line tools. p7zip produces standard 7z archive stream where lzma can be combined with additional filters, such as relative address pre-processing for jump and call instructions in an executable file.
 lzma utils, a port consisting of only the lzma code and designed to work with raw lzma streams in a similar way to the compression utilities gzip and bzip2. for archiving of multiple files, the lzma tool would be used on top of an archive format such as .tar. the produced output is raw lzma with no header information.

note that the lzma stream produced by 7-zip and lzma utils differ, making them incompatible. currently neither tool can use the files created by the opposite utility, at least for now. 7-zip includes an additional 64-bit header entry containing the uncompressed filesize, which lzma utils does not add.


 users .
software that uses or supports lzma:

 nullsoft scriptable install system;
 inno setup;
 cramfs and squashfs, with applied patches;
 lrzip ("long range zip", or "lzma rzip");
 pylzma, a python interface to igor pavlov's lzma sdk;
 freearc, an archiver and haskell interface to the lzma sdk;
 lzma sdk for pascal;
 comprexx, with explorer integration like windows xp's zip folders;
 installaware, for windows installer;
 peazip, gui frontend to command-line 7z and posix 7z binaries ;
 upx, from version 2.92 (beta) and above, features optional lzma compression;

 external links .
 7-zip homepage;
 p7zip homepage;
 pylzma homepage;














</doc>
<doc id="1943045" title="puzzle box" nonfiltered="133" processed="132" dbindex="133">
a puzzle box (also called a secret,or trick box) is a box which can only be opened by a non-obvious and sometimes complicated series of manipulations.  sometimes, a simple squeeze at the right spot will do the trick. on the other hand, sometimes many movements of small pieces are necessary for the box to open. hence some puzzle boxes are closely related to burr puzzles.  

jewelry used to be kept in trick boxes so that a potential thief would have problems seeing and stealing the contents.  puzzle boxes have been crafted all over the world, including morocco, poland and south america. by far the most intricate and beautiful is the japanese puzzle box, covered in complicated patterns of rich wood inlay called yosegi and featuring complex mechanisms to open them. at first glance they appear smooth and without any opening, but by various obvious or hidden panels, may take anywhere from 2 to over 200 movements to open.



the japanese puzzle box can be as small as an inch long, or up to over a foot in length.  they are adorned with elaborate inlaid wooden geometric designs, an independent craft in itself. they are produced in a few towns in small area of japan. the town of hakone in particular is regarded as the center of both the creation and the continuing evolution of this national traditional handicraft as designated by the minister of industry in 1984. in japan the boxes are known as "himitsu-bako" or "secret box." the exterior of the traditional himitsu-bako is covered by yosegi, which is a paperthin series of designs glued together then pressed in a device which helps align the very intricate geometric designs formed by the incredible shapes, colors, and textures of the many kinds of wood used to make the final piece of yosegi that will cover the top, bottom, sides, and ends of the box. on some of the finest boxes the artisan uses a technique known as moku-zougan, which is a picture made of various woods and often based on some of the woodblock prints from the late 1700s. the majority of these boxes with pictures in wood are made up of three common scenes which in the 1780s  were clearly visible from hakone #1) mountains; mt fugiyama is easily visible from hakone with its distinct white cap of snow #2) trees; in and around hakone are many species of trees; #3)  water; if the water is seen from hakone it is more than likely the water in lake ashino. many if not most of these scenes show a house tucked into the trees with a boat on the lake and mt. fuji clearly visible in the background. san means 3 and sui represents the three elements of nature water, trees and mountains combined to form the sansui scene familiar to almost everyone who grew up in the 1950s and through the 1970s.

these boxes were made in various complexities and consist basically of 4 moves with a variety of twists here and there to trick the person trying to open these exquisite boxes, but the real trick is finding the correct series of movements that can range from 2 to 125 moves.  mr. yoshio okiyama is credited with making the most complex box which requires 125 moves to open. he also made boxes which require from 78 to 90, 102, 122 moves to open and his final box, made while he was in his late 70's, was a 119 move box with a wood picture of a geisha on the top and a bow, as on a gift, on the bottom. only 19 of these complex boxes were made for sale while another 8 in a different style were made for sale in foreign markets.  mr. okiyama passed away in march of 2003 approximately at the same time as another great master of this craft, mr. kenji suzuki. on the other end of the scale of complexity is the greatest master craftsman of them all, the famous mr. yoshiyuki ninomiya, who makes the finest most perfectly made himitsu-bako to ever grace a collector's display area. finding the kannuki on one of his boxes is often nearly impossible to the untrained eye. mr. ninomiya has made fit and finish his life's work, at least in terms of the himitsu-bako.  for over 50 or 60 years now he has perfected the creation of these boxes to such a degree that he is far and away the finest woodworker of this craft. 

see also.
burr puzzles;
disentanglement puzzles;
lemarchand's box;
mechanical puzzles;
puzzles;
the movie hellraiser;



</doc>
<doc id="4226633" title="battle of przemy?l" nonfiltered="134" processed="133" dbindex="134">


the battle of przemy l was fought on november 11 and 12 of 1918 between polish and ukrainian forces.  the ukrainians were initially in control of the town with the polish gathered opposite the san river.  the polish then crossed the river and drove the ukrainians out of town.










</doc>
<doc id="677652" title="pogo? szczecin" nonfiltered="135" processed="134" dbindex="135">


mks pogo  szczecin is a polish football club based in szczecin, poland.

 famous players .
 marian kielec;
 leszek wolski;
 marek le niak;
 mariusz kuras;
 robert dymkowski;
 rados aw majdan;
 marek ostrowski;
 oleg salenko;
 amaral (alexandre da silva mariano);

 see also .
 football in poland;

 external links .
 pogo  szczecin official website;
 unofficial pogo  szczecin website;













</doc>
<doc id="3105105" title="tennessee code commission" nonfiltered="136" processed="135" dbindex="136">
the tennessee code commission is one of the 30 or more commissions, boards and committees that to provide assistance to the state court system.  the commission consists of five members of which three are ex-officio: the chief justice of tennessee, the attorney general and reporter and the director of legal services for the legislature.  the chief justice appoints the two other members. the commission publishes, sells and distributes the compilation of the laws, statutes and codes of the state.
 source .
the tennessee administrative office of the courts' web site




</doc>
<doc id="2577346" title="stadtoldendorf" nonfiltered="137" processed="136" dbindex="137">

stadtoldendorf is a city in the middle holzminden district, lower saxony, germany.

allocation of seats in the local council electoral period 2006-2011:

 cdu: 10 ;
 spd: 5 ;
 gr\fcnen: 1 ;
 fdp: 1 ;

culture.

museums.

 stadtmuseum im charlotte-leitzen-haus ;
 freilichtmuseum m\fchlenanger ;

buildings.

 f\f6rsterbergturm, from that 13th century;
 hagentorturm;
 kellbergturm;
 homburga castle, above city old village;
 alte rathaus (from 1875);
 ratskeller (from 1621);
 charlotte-leitzen-haus;

samtgemeinde stadtoldendorf.

stadtoldendorf is also the seat of the samtgemeinde ("collective municipality") stadtoldendorf, which consists of the following municipalities:

arholzen  ;
deensen  ;
heinade ;
lenne ;
stadtoldendorf ;
wangelnstedt;









</doc>
<doc id="237754" title="publius clodius pulcher" nonfiltered="138" processed="137" dbindex="138">
publius clodius pulcher (born around 92 bc, died january 18, 52 bc), was a roman politician, chiefly remembered for his feuds with titus annius milo and marcus tullius cicero and introducing the grain dole.  

life.
military career.
born as publius claudius pulcher, his military career was generally undistinguished.  he took part in the third mithridatic war under his brother-in-law, lucullus.  however, considering himself treated with insufficient respect, he stirred up a revolt.  another brother-in-law, q. marcius rex, governor of cilicia, gave him the command of his fleet, but he was captured by pirates. on his release he repaired to syria, where he nearly lost his life during a mutiny he was accused of instigating.

political life.
returning to rome in 65 bc, clodius turned to a cursus honorum.  he prosecuted catiline for extortion, but was bribed by him to procure acquittal. there seems no reason to believe that clodius was involved in the catilinarian conspiracy; indeed, according to plutarch (cicero, 29), he rendered cicero every assistance and acted as one of his bodyguards. 

the affair of the mysteries of the bona dea, however, caused a breach between cicero and clodius in december 62 bc. clodius, dressed as a woman (men were not admitted to the mysteries), entered the house of julius caesar (at the time pontifex maximus), where the mysteries were being celebrated.  it was suggested at the time that clodius wore the disguise in order to carry on an intrigue with pompeia sulla, caesar's wife. (whether or not the allegation was true of clodius' seeking an affair with pompeia sulla, caesar divorced her in short order to avoid even the hint of impropriety in his spouse.) he was detected and brought to trial, but escaped condemnation by bribing the jury. cicero's violent public statements on this occasion may have led clodius to seek revenge.

renounciation of patrician rank.
on his return from sicily (where he had been quaestor in 61 bc), clodius chose to renounce his patrician rank.  after gaining the consent of the roman senate, and with the connivance of caesar, he succeeded in being adopted into the plebeian branch of his gens by p. fonteius in 59 bc.  on december 10, 59 bc, he was elected tribune of the plebs, an office for which patricians were ineligible.

introduction of the grain dole.
his first act as tribune was to bring forward laws seemingly calculated to secure him popular favour. grain, instead of being sold at a low rate, was to be distributed gratuitously once a month; the right of taking the omens on a fixed day and (if they were declared unfavourable) of preventing the assembly of the comitia, possessed by every magistrate by the terms of the lex aelia fufia, was abolished; the old clubs or guilds of workmen were re-established; the censors were forbidden to exclude any citizen from the senate or inflict any punishment upon him unless he had been publicly accused and condemned.

rise to power.
clodius then acted against cicero and cato the younger, who was sent to cyprus as praetor to take possession of the island and the royal treasures. cicero's property was confiscated by order of clodius, his house on the palatine burned down, and its site put up for auction. it was purchased by clodius himself, who, not wishing his name to appear in the matter, had someone else place the bid for him. after the departure of caesar for gaul, clodius practically became master of rome with the aid of a personal gang, one of several that were active in the city at the time.  in 57 bc, one of the tribunes proposed the recall of cicero, and clodius resorted to force to prevent the passing of the decree.  his effort was foiled by milo, who led an armed gang sufficiently strong to hold him in check. clodius subsequently attacked the workmen who were rebuilding cicero's house at public cost, assaulted cicero himself in the street, and set fire to the house of cicero's  brother quintus tullius cicero.

in 56, while curule aedile, he impeached milo for public violence (de vi) while defending his house against the attacks of clodius' gang, and also charged him with keeping armed bands in his service. judicial proceedings were hindered by violent outbreaks, and the matter was finally dropped.

death.
in 53 bc, when milo was a candidate for the consulship, and clodius for the praetorship, the rivals collected armed bands and clashed in the streets of rome.  on january 18 52 bc,  clodius was slain near bovillae.  his enraged clients used the senate house as his funeral pyre.

family.
clodius was born into the wealthy patrician family of appius claudius pulcher and caecilia metella balearica. he changed his name from the ancient patrician spelling of claudius to the plebeian spelling of clodius upon his adoption by p. fonteius. clodius was married to fulvia, and had a daughter, clodia pulchra, who was briefly married to octavian, and a son, also named p. clodius.

his sister, clodia, was immortalized in the poems of gaius valerius catullus and the writings of marcus tullius cicero; cicero insinuated, in pro caelio, that clodia had had an incestuous relationship with her brother.  she lived her life surrounded in perpetual scandal.

clodius in popular culture.
 clodius makes several appearances in roma sub rosa, a series of novels by the american author steven saylor.
 clodius is a particular enemy of decius caecilius metellus the younger in the spqr series of mysteries by john maddox roberts.
 clodius is a key player in colleen mccullough's masters of rome series books caesar's women and caesar.  his entire exploits from his time in the east to his death in 52 bc is chronicled as a subplot to the greater story.
 clodius plays a minor role in the ides of march, an epistolatory novel by thornton wilder dealing with characters and events leading to, and culminating in the assassination of julius caesar. clodius' possible involvement with ceasar's second wife pompeia and his attempt to attend the secret rites of the bona dea are mentioned (though these events are transplanted in time).

references.
;
 cicero, lettes (ed. tyrrell and purser), pro caelio, pro sestio, pro milone, pro domo sua, de haruspicum responsis, in pisonem; ;
 plutarch, lucullus, pompey, cicero, caesar; dio cassius xxxvi. 16, 19, xxxvii. 45, 46, 51, xxxviii. 12-14, xxxix. 6, if, xl. 48.  see also i gentile, clodio e cicerone (milan, 1876);
 es beesley, "cicero and clodius," in fortnightly review, v.; g lacour-gayet, de p. clodio pulchro (paris, 1888), and in revue historique (sept. 1889); ;
 tatum, w. jeffrey. the patrician tribune: p. clodius pulcher. studies in the history of greece and rome. chapel hill: university of north carolina press, 1999 (hardcover, isbn 0807824801).
 h white, cicero, clodius and milo (new york, 1900); ;
 g boissier, cicero and his friends (eng. trans., 1897).
 cicero, letters (ed. evelyn shuckburgh), dccxiii (a xiv, 13 a).




















</doc>
<doc id="7733080" title="christian social party (germany)" nonfiltered="139" processed="138" dbindex="139">
the christian social party (, csp) was an anti-semitic christian political party in the deutsche reich, founded in 1878 by adolf stoecker as the christlichsoziale arbeiterpartei (christian social workers' party).

the christian social party combined a strong religious and monarchist programme with progressive ideas on labour, and tried to provide an alternative for disillusioned social democrat voters. 

in the 1878 elections, the party obtained less than 1% of the vote. earlier, johann most led a large conjugation of social democrats in protesting against the party and its "christianity." 

although anti-semitism was only a minor theme in the early stages of the party, the anti-semitic message was carried by the so-called berlin movement (berliner bewegung) of the 1880s, which gathered considerable support. the csp never gained mass support, but adolf stoecker was able to obtain a seat in the reichstag after an electoral coalition with the conservative party. when the conservatives became worried with the over-tones in stoecker' anti-semitic messages (although stoecker's messages were more targeted at reform judaism than orthodox judaism), the christian socialists were forced from the coalition in 1896.

the demise of the christian social party came in the early 1900s. 

most members of the csp, under lead of reichstag member reinhard mumm (who succeeded adolf stoecker in representing the arnsberg constituency), stepped over to the german national people's party (deutschnationale volkspartei) in 1918. the group separated itself again, stepping over to the christian social people's service (christlich-soziale volksdienst) in 1929 after alfred hugenberg became the people's party's president in 1928.

notable members.
adolf stoecker;
hellmut von gerlach;

references.







</doc>
<doc id="8600077" title="sipcot it park" nonfiltered="140" processed="139" dbindex="140">
sipcot it park is an information technology park located in padur, siruseri, off old mahabalipuram road, just outside chennai. it is run by sipcot, the state industries promotion corporation of tami nadu, a fully government-owned institution established in 1972.

places within sipcot it park.

companies.
 xansa: this currently houses over 1,000 employees;
 tata consultancy services: this is still  under construction, and plans to house 10,000 employees;
 allfon;
 cognizant technology solutions;
 patni;
 biotech park for women society;
educational institutions.

 chennai mathematical institute;
 itm business school;

transportation.

most of the companies/organizations within sipcot have their own transportation, including buses, tempo travellers, and smaller vehicles, to ferry their employees. very few people use private transportation for commuting to sipcot, possibly due to the great distance between sipcot and their homes.

no thoroughfare is allowed within sipcot. only one mtc bus plies through sipcot: 21h cut, which goes to/from the biotech park for women's society.

sipcot is located on old mahabalipuram road, and public transport (mtc buses) are available at a bus stop just outside the gate. taxis and autos are not easy to get around sipcot as of now.

the public buses that stop at sipcot are 19b (going to saidapet), m19b (going to thiruvanmiyur), and m5 (going to adyar). all these buses originate at kelambakkam). the bus 21h going to broadway is a green board (express) bus that passes via the sipcot it park bus stop but does not stop at it.

external links.
 sipcot's offical page on the it park;




</doc>
<doc id="5556614" title="armiansk municipality" nonfiltered="141" processed="140" dbindex="141">

armyansk city municipality (, , ) is one of the 25 regions of crimea. it is one of the smallest regions of the republic, located on the perekop isthmus.

the region includes the city of armyansk and 3 villages: suvorove (cul a), voloshyne (qulla) and pekekop (or qap ). crimean tatar names are mentioned in brackets.







</doc>
<doc id="1605638" title="hart station" nonfiltered="142" processed="141" dbindex="142">
hart station is a place in county durham, in england. it is situated to the north west of hartlepool, near west view.




</doc>
<doc id="6298937" title="kaguyahime" nonfiltered="143" processed="142" dbindex="143">




 is a manga by reiko shimizu.

story.

based on the tale of the bamboo cutter, this manga tells of an island called kabuchi-jima where ten children were raised in an orphanage as sacrifical victims. they manage to leave the island and think they had escaped their fates. but years later, they start to die at age sixteen in the order and the time they were to be sacrificed. the only way to stop it is to go back on the island and seek out the cause - kaguya hime - and destroy it.














</doc>
<doc id="4724018" title="legs (song)" nonfiltered="144" processed="143" dbindex="144">
"legs" is a song performed by the band zz top from their 1983 album eliminator. the song was released as a single in 1984 and reached #8 on the billboard hot 100 in the united states. the song's lyrics feature a sexual double entendre, a signature found in many zz top songs.

kid rock covered the song for the wwe produced album, wwf forceable entry in 2002.  it was used as wwe diva, stacy keibler's entrance theme.








</doc>
<doc id="2067271" title="crumple-horned snorkack" nonfiltered="145" processed="144" dbindex="145">
the crumple-horned snorkack is a magical creature of dubious existence that is incapable of flight. it is mentioned several times in harry potter and the order of the phoenix by the character luna lovegood.  the only people who accept the existence of this creature appear to be luna lovegood, her father, and presumably certain fans of mr lovegood's magazine, the quibbler.  according to lovegood, some of these creatures can be found in sweden. however, hermione granger doubts the existence of any crumple-horned snorkacks; they appear to be the magical equivalent of such dubious beings as the loch ness monster or yetis (though it should be noted that wizards accept these as completely real).   

debate over the existence of crumple-horned snorkacks is the subject of occasional tension between hermione and luna, although so far, the creatures have not played major roles in the series.  since most people do not believe luna's claim that crumple-horned snorkacks do exist, they point to that claim as evidence of her weirdness.



</doc>
<doc id="7791024" title="kampung jelutong" nonfiltered="146" processed="145" dbindex="146">
kampung jelutong is a small village located about 12 km south of taiping, perak, malaysia.

amenities.

schools.

sekolah kebangsaan jelutong;
sekolah ugama jelutong;

shops & services.

caltex petrol kiosk;
barber shop;
coffee shops;
motorcycle repair shop;
sundry shops;
telecom sub-station;

communities.

jelutong mosque;
local people's hall;
camping ground;







</doc>
<doc id="2079559" title="chord (concurrency)" nonfiltered="147" processed="146" dbindex="147">
a chord is a concurrency construct available in polyphonic c  and c  inspired by the join pattern of the join-calculus.



</doc>
<doc id="750978" title="machiko hasegawa" nonfiltered="148" processed="147" dbindex="148">
machiko hasegawa (      hasegawa machiko, january 30, 1920   may 27, 1992, in taku, saga prefecture) was one of the first female manga artists. 

she started her own comic strip, sazae-san, in 1946. it reached national circulation via the asahi shimbun in 1949 and ran daily until hasegawa decided to retire in february, 1974. all of her comics were printed in japan in digests of comic book form; by the mid-1990s, hasegawa's estate had sold over 60 million copies in japan alone.

her comic strip was turned into a dramatic radio series in 1955 and a weekly animated series in 1969, which is still running in 2006.

selected comics were translated into english, under the title the wonderful world of sazae-san.

see also.
 hasegawa machiko art museum;










</doc>
<doc id="494671" title="optus television" nonfiltered="149" processed="148" dbindex="149">
optus television is the cable television division of australian telecommunications company optus.


history.
its immediate predecessor was optus vision, a joint venture between its parent company, optus, and the large local media companies publishing and broadcasting limited and seven network. the optus vision joint venture was founded to handle residential cable television and local telephony, while its parent concentrated on corporate, long-distance, satellite and interstate communications.  optus vision used a unique hybrid cable to connect homes to its network, and later added broadband cable internet access to its network.

unlike in most countries, australian local governments did not create local cable monopolies. this meant that when cable tv became legal in the early 90s anyone with enough money could lay a cable network anywhere. optus and telstra were the two main telecommunications companies in australia at the time, and both spent billions on hybrid coax and optic fibre networks in the major capital cities. optus' network reached small parts of sydney, melbourne and brisbane, while telstra's covered exactly the same territory plus more of those cities and tiny parts of adelaide, perth and the gold coast.

while the optus network had optus vision, the telstra network had foxtel, a 50/50 joint venture with news corporation. these competed heavily in the metropolitan areas. both groups affiliated with another pay tv company, austar, in the lower-profit rural areas. austar was effectively given a monopoly in its territory.

optus vision had nearly total coverage of the country's popular sports tied up (through partially seven network owned sportsvision and espn), a movie package equal to foxtel, and exclusive rights to popular channels like disney channel and mtv australia.

optus proved that content is not always king. if people cannot get access to your content, eventually your content will end up somewhere that they can.

from 1995 to 1997, the super league war waged between the two consortiums over lucrative rugby league rights. at the end of the war, packer changed sides, becoming a 25% owner of foxtel. optus vision was sold to optus, and renamed "optus television".

in 2002 optus let go of some of its exclusive content contracts, replacing them with non-exclusive ones. mtv australia, disney channel and espn all became available on foxtel as soon as they were able.

 satellite broadcasting .
optus, along with austar had a joint venture in the use of satellite broadcasting for the delivery of subscription television. originally, foxtel had not previously offered a satellite service, until purchasing the satellite subscribers from australis media within their service area. until 2004, foxtel was a customer of the austar/optus joint venture.

optus utilised this joint venture to initially trial and subsequently offer a basic satellite service, named vip. the service was very select with not many being able to access the service. the ability to offer the service came about due to optus offering a large number of channels to east coast television (now apart of austar). after optus axed the vip service, it also sold its share in the joint venture to austar.

in 2004, the roles reversed and austar became the customer to foxtel for satellite delivery.

sport programming.

until 2002, optus did not offer the fox sports sporting channels on their service as foxtel and austar did, instead offering channels from sportsvision (later c7 sport) and espn.

during the super league/arl war, optus' sports channels had the rights to the arl competition and the super league rights were held by fox sports.

seven bought sportsvision, which became optus and austar exclusive c7 sport and progressively lost sporting rights to fox sports. during that time foxtel granted optus an "nrl channel", screening all of the nrl matches that had previously been shown exclusively on the foxtel platform.

c7 sport for some time had attempted to access the foxtel platform for their service - however foxtel were hesitant to accede to the request, with one exception being the 2000 sydney olympics, where c7 offered two extra channels dedicated to olympics coverage.

in 2000, seven and c7 sport lost the afl rights to a nine/ten and foxtel-based consortium leaving c7 with only the olympics and 6 nations rugby rights of major substance.

in 2002, the commencement of the new afl broadcasting deal with foxtel led optus and austar to drop c7 sport from their services, leading to the demise of the channel. optus replaced the c7 channels with an optus rebadged version of fox sports.

the dropping of the c7 service has lead to optus being a party in the action being taken by the seven network over the demise of the c7 sport service.

 subscriber numbers .
for some time, optus has not explicitly released subscriber numbers for their optus television service, however combining them with other services offered under the division that optus television is a part of.

since december 2002, subscriber numbers have dropped considerably to almost half of the 241,000 reported.   since that time, optus has repositioned its television service to being a major component of bundled services, rather than a service by itself.

 optus itv trials .
during 2002-03, optus trialled interactive digital television over part of its sydney network. this was known as optus itv. the service was unique to optus and had a good deal of positive consumer feedback. the itv service utilised the liberate platform instead of opentv, as used by foxtel digital. the trials were canceled by optus after the content supply agreement was reached.

a notable difference between optus itv and foxtel digital was that the optus system used the same hfc cable network both for delivery and for the return path, meaning no additional hardware or service was required for this return path.  by contrast, the foxtel digital system relies on a telephone connection for the return path.  the advantage of this system is that it is platform neutral, meaning that the same telephone-based return path can be used for both cable and satellite installations.

the optus itv system also allowed true video on demand.  foxtel digitial provides near video on demand, with featured content broadcast on multiple channels with staggered start times available at frequent intervals.

other potential features of optus itv included e-mail and walled garden internet access.

 optus tv featuring foxtel .
after sigining up to the content supply agreement with foxtel, optus television changed their channel lineup to reflect the offerings from foxtel.   optus were able to have a number of differences between their offering and the foxtel offering, so that optus could meet some contractual obligations they had, as well as satisfying a number of requirements placed on the organisation by the accc.

a number of channels that had previously been unique to optus (in comparison to foxtel) were removed from optus' lineup as they competed with channels that foxtel offered, other channels crossed from optus to the foxtel lineup.   optus were required to have a number of channels that were unique to their service, though the flagged channels are now available on both platforms without any change in regulation nor penalty.

 optus tv featuring foxtel digital .
in april 2005, foxtel granted optus the right to carry the "foxtel digital" platform - an expanded range of channels including some interactivity.  the service would be resold by optus, utilising the same equipment as foxtel (such as the foxtel iq pdr, nds technologies for encryption and opentv for interactivity delivery).

this agreement also allows for non-exclusive resale rights to the foxtel digital service using satellite delivery within foxtel's service area.

commencing trials in november 2005, the service became fully operational in december of the same year.

optus is believed to be permitting wholesale access to the network so third party broadcasters can sell subscription services over optus cable.

channel line-up.
channels on the "optus tv featuring foxtel digital" service:
entertainment.
 channel 100 - channel 9 and affiliates (digital fta retransmission);
 channel 101 - tv1;
 channel 102 - abc (digital fta retransmission);
 channel 103 - uk.tv (british entertainment programs) ;
 channel 104 - sbs (digital fta retransmission);
 channel 105 - arena tv ;
 channel 106 - the lifestyle channel ;
 channel 107 - channel 7 and affiliates (analogue fta retransmission);
 channel 108 - fox8;
 channel 110 - channel 10 and affiliates (analogue fta retransmission);
 channel 112 - fox classics (classic television programs and movies) ;
 channel 113 - w (formerly known as fx);
 channel 114 - foxtel box office preview channel;
 channel 116 - hallmark channel;
 channel 117 - lifestyle food;
 channel 118 - how to channel;
 channel 120 - the comedy channel;
 channel 121 - e!;
 channel 123 - fashion tv;
 channel 124 - hallmark channel;
 channel 125 - ovation channel (visual and performing arts);
 channel 126 - abc2 (digital fta retransmission);
 channel 132 - sci fi channel (australia);
 channel 150 - fox8 + 2;
 channel 151 - tv1 + 2;
 channel 152 - fox classics + 2	;
 channel 153 - the comedy channel + 2;
 channel 154 - arena tv + 2;
 channel 155 - w + 2;
 channel 156 - uk.tv + 2;
 channel 157 - the lifestyle channel + 2;
 channel 176 - tvsn;
 channel 177 - expo channel;
 channel 182 - australian christian channel;
 channel 183 - aurora community television;

movies.
 channel 401 - showtime;
 channel 402 - showtime + 2;
 channel 404 - showtime greats (formerly known as encore);
 channel 411 - movie one;
 channel 412 -	movie one + 2;
 channel 413 - movie extra;
 channel 415 -	movie greats;
 channel 417 -	tcm;
 channel 419 -	world movies;

sports.
 channel 501 - fox sports one;
 channel 502 - fox sports two;
 channel 503 - fox sports three;
 channel 508 - espn;
 channel 509 -	eurosportnews;
 channel 513 - fox sports news;
 channel 516 - fuel tv;
 channel 517 - adventure one;
 channel 518 - main event;
 channel 519 - sky racing;

news, weather.
 channel 601 - sky news australia;
 channel 603 - the weather channel;
 channel 604 - fox news;
 channel 605 - cnn international;
 channel 606 - bbc world;
 channel 648 - sbs world news channel;
 channel 650 - bloomberg television;
 channel 652 - cnbc australia;

documentaries & infotainment.
 channel 115 - the biography channel;
 channel 608 - the history channel;
 channel 610 - discovery channel;
 channel 612 - national geographic channel;
 channel 615 - animal planet;
 channel 617 - crime and investigation network;
 channel 638 - discovery science channel;
 channel 640 - discovery home and health channel (formerly discovery health channel);
 channel 646 - discovery travel and living channel (formerly discovery travel and adventure channel);

kids.
 channel 701 -	nickelodeon;
 channel 703 - nick jr.;
 channel 707 - disney channel;
 channel 709 - playhouse disney;
 channel 713 - cartoon network;
 channel 715 - boomerang;

music.
 channel 801 - channel ;
 channel 803 - channel 2 (formerly known as club );
 channel 805 - max (formerly known as musicmax);
 channel 808 - mtv australia;
 channel 810 - vh1;
 channel 815 - country music channel;
 channel 830 - air interactive;

digital audio.
channel 830 - stations featured on air interactive
 hits;
 radio 2;
 pop;
 groove;
 rock;
 jukebox;
 new wave;
 home grown;
 urban;
 dance;
 anthem;
 soul;
 easy;
 lounge;
 caf\e9;
 spa;
 blues;
 light classical;
 sound tracks;
 crooners;
 today s country;
 classic country;
 bbc world service;
 special events;
 edge;
  70s;
  80s;
 alt-rock;
 classic r&b;
 news and more;

other audio stations
 channel 867 -	sbs am (from sydney);
 channel 868 -	sbs fm (from sydney);
 channel 875 - abc newsradio;
 channel 876 - abc parliamentary news network;
 channel 877 - abc radio national;
 channel 878 - abc local radio (metro)+;
 channel 879 - abc local radio (rural)+;
 channel 882 - abc classic fm;
 channel 883 - triple j;
 channel 884 -	abc dig radio;
 channel 885 - abc dig jazz;

+ dependent on the location of the subscriber.

foxtel box office - ppv movies.
 channels 901 - 927 -	foxtel box office channels;

other.
 channel 928 -	foxtel box office preview channel;
 channel 935 - art (arabic);
 channel 936 - al jazeera (arabic);
 channel 937 - lbc (lebanese);
 channel 941 -	antenna (greek) (formerly known as antenna pacific);
 channel 942 -	rai international (radiotelevisione italiana) (italian);
 channel 955 -	adults only (late night only);
 channel 955 -	main event;
 channel 955 -	fashion tv;
 channel 960 -	adults only select 1;
 channel 961 -	adults only select 2;
 channel 999 -	digital help channel;









</doc>
<doc id="81108" title="oeagrus" nonfiltered="150" processed="149" dbindex="150">
oeagrus pronunciation? (oeager) in greek mythology was a king of thrace. he and the muse calliope were possibly the parents of orpheus and linus.

he is sometimes called the son of ares, but other times charops is mentioned as his father, which explains his inheritance of the throne.











</doc>
<doc id="56937" title="list of common diseases" nonfiltered="151" processed="150" dbindex="151">
this is a list of common, well-known or infamous diseases. this is neither complete nor authoritative. this is not intended to be a list of rare diseases, nor is it a list of mental disorders.

this list includes both common names and technical names for diseases. this is deliberate; where multiple names are in common use for the same disease, all of those names should link to the main article for the disease.

this list has been collated from various sources in the wikipedia, and public domain resources. 

 a number of rare diseases may be present in this list. unless they are notable for other reasons (for example, ebola), please remove rare diseases from this list, and add them to the list of rare diseases if they are not already listed there.

list of diseases (in alphabetical order):




 a .
 avadhi;
 acne;
 adenoma;
 ageing;
 aids;
 albinism;
 alcoholic hepatitis;
 alopecia;
 alzheimer's disease;
 amblyopia;
 amoebiasis or amebiasis;
 anemia;
 aneurysm;
 anosmia;
 anotia;
 anthrax;
 appendicitis;
 apraxia;
 argyria;
 arteritis;
 arthritis;
 aseptic meningitis;
 asthenia;
 asthma;
 atherosclerosis;
 athetosis;
 athlete's foot;
 atrophy;
 autism;

 b .
 beriberi;
 bipolar disorder;
 bladder infection;
 botulism;
 brucellosis;
 bubonic plague;
 brain cancer;

 c .
 calculi;
 campylobacter infection;
 cancer;
 candidiasis;
 cardiac arrest;
 chagas disease;
 chalazion;
 chancroid;
 cherubism;
 chickenpox;
 chlamydia;
 cholera;
 chordoma;
 chorea;
 chronic fatigue syndrome;
 cleft lip;
 coccidioidomycosis;
 cold sore;
 colitis;
 color blindness;
 common cold;
 condyloma;
 congestive heart disease;
 coronary heart disease;
 cowpox;
 cretinism;
 cystic fibrosis;

 d .

 dermatophytosis;
 diabetes mellitus;
 diaper rash;
 diphtheria;

 e .

 ebola;
 e. coli poisoning;
 encephalitis;

 f .

 foodborne illness;

 g .
 genital warts;
 gonorrhoea;
 glandular fever;

 h .

 hemophilia a;
 hepatitis a;
 hepatitis b;
 hepatitis c;
 hepatitis e;
 herpes;
 huntington's disease;
 hypertension;
 headache;

 i .
 ichthyosis;
 influenza;
 interstitial cystitis;
 iritis;
 iron-deficiency anemia;
 irritable bowel syndrome;

 j .
jaundice;

 k .
 keloids;
 keratosis pilaris;
 kuru (disease);
 kwashiorkor;

 l .

 lazy eye;
 lead poisoning;
 legionellosis;
 leishmaniasis;
 leprosy;
 leptospirosis;
 listeriosis;
 leukemia;
 loiasis;
 lupus erythematosus;
 lyme disease;
 lymphogranuloma venereum;
 lymphoma;

 m .
 malaria;
 marburg fever;
 measles;
 melioidosis;
 m\e9ni\e8re's disease;
 meningitis;
 meningococcemia;
 migraine;
 multiple myeloma;
 multiple sclerosis;
 mumps;
 muscular dystrophy;
 myasthenia gravis;
 myelitis;
 myoclonus;
 myopathy;
 myopia;
 myxedema;

 n .
 neoplasm;
 non-gonococcal urethritis;

 o .
 obsessive-compulsive disorder;
 obesity;
 osteoarthritis;

 p .
 pancreatitis;
 paratyphoid fever;
 parkinson's disease;
 pelvic inflammatory disease;
 peritonitis;
 periodontal disease;
 pertussis;
 phenylketonuria;
 pityriasis rosea;
 plague (bubonic, septicemic, pneumonic and pharyngeal);
 pneumonia;
 polio or poliomyelitis;
 porphyria;
 progeria;
 prostatitis;
 psittacosis;
 psoriasis;
 pubic lice;

 q .
 q fever;
 r .
 rabies;
 raynaud's disease;
 repetitive strain injury (rsi);
 rheumatic fever;
 rheumatoid arthritis;
 rickets;
 rift valley fever;
 rocky mountain spotted fever;
 rubella;
 rheumatic heart disease;

 s .
 salmonella poisoning;
 salmonellosis;
 scabies;
 scarlet fever;
 sciatica;
 schizophrenia;
 scleroderma;
 scurvy;
 sepsis;
 sars;
 shigellosis;
 shingles;
 shock;
 sickle-cell disease;
 siderosis;
 silicosis;
 stevens-johnson syndrome;
 strabismus;
 strep throat;
 streptococcal infection;
 synovitis;
 syphilis;

 t .
 tapeworm infection;
 tay-sachs disease;
 teratoma;
 tetanus;
 thalassaemia;
 thrush;
 tinnitus;
 toxic shock syndrome;
 trichomoniasis;
 trisomy;
 tuberculosis;
 tularemia;
 tungiasis;
 typhoid or typhoid fever;
 typhus;

 u .
 ulcerative colitis;
 uremia;
 urticaria;
 uveitis;
 v .
 varicella;
 vasovagal syncope;
 vitiligo;

 w .
 warkany syndrome;
 warts;

 x .
 y .
 yellow fever;
 yaws;














</doc>
<doc id="6325130" title="tamil trinity" nonfiltered="152" processed="151" dbindex="152">
the tamil trinity (also known as the tamil moovar) commonly refers to the three tamil composers of early carnatic music. they were muthu thandavar (?1560 - ?1640 ce), arunachala kavi (1712-1779) and marimutthu pillai (1717-1787), and lived five decades before the tiruvarur trinity or trinity of carnatic music. they introduced several innovations that led to the evolution of the carnatic kriti (song).  

references.
 tamil music - carnatica;
 - tamil trinity;






</doc>
<doc id="987673" title="rumtek monastery" nonfiltered="153" processed="152" dbindex="153">

rumtek (), also called the dharmachakra centre, is a tibetan buddhist monastery located in the indian state of sikkim near the capital gangtok. originally built by the 9th karmapa wangchuk dorje in 16th century, rumtek served as the main seat of the karma kagyu lineage in sikkim for some time. but when the 16th karmapa arrived in sikkim in 1959, after fleeing before the chinese occupation of tibet, it was in ruins. despite being offered other sites, the karmapa decided to rebuild rumtek. to him, the site possessed many auspicious qualities and was surrounded by the most favorable attributes. for example, flowing streams, mountains behind, a snow range in front, and a river below. with the generosity and help of the sikkim royal family and the indian government, it has been built by the 16th karmapa as his main seat in exile. 

after four years, construction of the monastery was completed. the sacred items and relics brought out from tsurphu, the karmapa's seat in tibet, were installed. on tibetan new year's day (losar) in 1966 the 16th karmapa officially inaugurated the new seat called, "the dharmachakra centre, a place of erudition and spiritual accomplishment, the seat of the glorious karmapa." 

the monastery is currently the largest in sikkim. it is  home to the community of monks and where they perform the rituals and practices of the karma kagyu lineage. a golden stupa contains the  relics of the 16th karmapa. opposite that building is a college, karma shri nalanda institute for higher buddhist studies.

rumtek is located 24 km from gangtok, the capital of the sikkim, at an altitude of about 1500 m.

rumtek is currently at the centre of the karmapa controversy with a lengthy battle being played out in the indian courts. two rival organisations, both supporting different candidates for the 17th karmapa claim stewardship of the monastery and its contents. the two organisations are the karmapa charitable trust (supporting thaye dorje) and the tsurphu labrang (supporting ogyen trinley dorje). currently neither karmapa candidate resides at rumtek.

external links.
 ;
 rumtek details at kaguoffice.org - suppporters of ogyen trinley dorje;
 rumtek monastery's official website - supporters of ogyen trinley;
 information on the rumtek case in the indian courts;














</doc>
<doc id="807003" title="calcium phosphate" nonfiltered="154" processed="153" dbindex="154">
calcium phosphate is the name given to a family of minerals containing calcium ions (ca2+) together with orthophosphates (po43-), metaphosphates or pyrophosphates (p2o74-) and occasionally hydrogen or hydroxide ions.

varieties.


uses.
calcium phosphate is an important raw material for the production of phosphoric acid and fertilizers, for example in the odda process. overuse of certain forms of calcium phosphate can lead to nutrient-containing surface runoff and subsequent adverse effects upon receiving waters such as algal blooms  and eutrophication.  

calcium phosphate is also a raising agent, with e number e341. it is also used in cheese products. 

it is also used as a nutritional supplement.  there is some debate about the different bioavailabilities of the different calcium salts.

another practical application of the compound is its use in gene transfection. the calcium ions can make a cell competent to allow exogenous genes to enter the cell by diffusion. a heat shock afterwards then induces the cell to repair itself. this is a quick and easy method for transfection, albeit a rather inefficient one.  calcium chloride is also used for this purpose.




</doc>
<doc id="885805" title="synod of pistoia" nonfiltered="155" processed="154" dbindex="155">
the synod of pistoia was a diocesan synod held in 1786 under the presidency of scipione de' ricci (1741-1810), bishop of pistoia, and the patronage of leopold, grand-duke of tuscany, with a view to preparing the ground for a national council and a reform of the tuscan church.

on january 26 the grand-duke issued a circular letter to the tuscan bishops suggesting certain reforms, especially in the matter of the restoration of the authority of diocesan synods, the purging of the missals and breviaries of legends, the assertion of episcopal as against papal authority, the curtailing of the privileges of the monastic orders, and the better education of the clergy.

in spite of the hostile attitude of the great majority of the bishops, bishop de ricci issued on july 31 a summons to a diocesan synod, which was solemnly opened on the september 18. it was attended by 233 beneficed secular and 13 regular priests, and decided with practical unanimity on a series of decrees which, had it been possible to carry them into effect, would have involved a drastic alteration of the church on the lines advocated by febronius.

the first decree (decretum de fide et ecclesia) declared that the roman catholic church has no right to introduce new dogmas, but only to preserve in its original purity the faith once delivered by christ to his apostles, and is infallible only so far as it conforms to holy scripture and true tradition; the church, moreover is a purely spiritual body and has no authority in things secular. other decrees denounced the abuse of indulgences, of festivals of saints, and of processions and suggested reforms; others again enjoined the closing of shops on sunday during divine service, the issue of service-books with parallel translations in the vernacular, a vernacularization of the roman rite and recommended the abolition of all monastic orders except that of st. benedict, the rules of which were to be brought into harmony with modern ideas; nuns were to be forbidden to take the vows before the age of 40. the last decree proposed the convocation of a national council. its claims and teachings incorporated many demands made by the jansenist clergy previously, though the synod cannot be said to have been jansenist in essence. 

these decrees were issued together with a pastoral letter of bishop de ricci, and were warmly approved by the grand-duke, at whose instance a national synod of the tuscan bishops met at florence on april 23, 1787. the temper of this assembly was, however, wholly different. the bishops refused to allow a voice to any not of their own order, and in the end the decrees of pistoia were supported by a minority of only three. they were finally condemned at rome by the bull auctorem fidei of august 28, 1794. de' ricci, deprived of the personal support of the grand-duke (now the emperor leopold i), exposed to pressure from rome, and threatened with mob violence as a suspected destroyer of holy relics, resigned his see in 1791, and lived in florence as a private gentleman until his death. in may 1805, on the return of pope pius vii from paris, he signed an act of submission to the papal decision of 1794.

de' ricci's own memoirs, memorie di scipione de ricci, vescovo di prato e pistoia, edited by antonio galli, were published at florence in two volumes in 1865. besides this, his letters to antonio marini were published by cesare guasti at prato in 1857; these were promptly put on the index. see also de potter, vie de scipion de ricci (2 vols., brussels, 1825), based on a manuscript life and a manuscript account of the synod placed on the index in 1823. there are many documents in zobi, storia civile della toscana, vols. ii. and iii. (florence, 1856). the acts of the synod of pistoia were published in italian and latin at pavia in 1788.
----







</doc>
<doc id="4380" title="books of kings" nonfiltered="156" processed="155" dbindex="156">


the books of kings (hebrew: sefer melachim          ) is a part of judaism's tanakh, the hebrew bible. it was originally written in hebrew, and it was later included by christianity as part of the old testament.  according to biblical chronology, the events in the book of kings occured sometime around the 9th and 10th century bce. 

contents.
it contains accounts of the kings of the ancient kingdom of israel and the kingdom of judah.

they contain the annals of the jewish commonwealth from the accession of solomon till the subjugation of the kingdom by nebuchadnezzar and the babylonians (apparently a period of about four hundred and fifty-three years). the books of kings synchronize with 1 chronicles 28 - 2 chronicles 36:21. while in the chronicles greater prominence is given to the priestly or levitical office, in the kings greater prominence is given to the royal office.  kings appears to have been written considerably earlier than chronicles, and as such is generally considered a more reliable historical source.

the story of adonijah (1 kings 1:1-2:46) - during his old age, david spends his nights with abishag, a woman appointed for the purpose of keeping him warm. adonijah, a son of david, gathers attendants and persuades joab and abiathar to support his claim to be david's heir. opposed to this are zadok, benaiah, nathan, and shimei, as well as the army generals, who favour solomon, another son of david. adonijah invites his supporters, neutral court officials, and his other brothers excepting solomon, to the zoheleth stone. nathan persuades bathsheba, the mother of solomon, to trick david into announcing that solomon is his heir. after having done this, david has solomon anointed as the next king. when adonijah is told, he and his guests flee, and adonijah seeks sanctuary at the jerusalem altar. begging not to be harmed by solomon, adonijah is only told that he won't be harmed if he is guiltless. dying, david instructs solomon to take revenge on joab, a supporter of adonijah, and shimei, and to be kind to the sons of barzillai. adonijah approaches bathsheba asking for a conciliatory gesture from solomon, namely he asks for abishag, but when bathsheba asks solomon about this, solomon has benaiah slaughter adonijah. abiathar, who had supported adonijah, is then deposed from being head priest of the jerusalem altar, and exiled to his homeland, and is replaced by zadok. joab, another of adonijah's supporters, seeks sanctuary at the jerusalem altar, but solomon has benaiah slaughter joab at the altar itself. as for shimei, solomon orders him to remain in jerusalem, but when shimei later retrieves his servants who had fled to gath, solomon has benaiah slaughter shimei for leaving.

the wisdom of solomon (1 kings 3:1-15 and 5:9-14) - after having cemented an alliance with egypt by marrying the daughter of pharaoh, solomon went to gibeon, to make sacrifices, as it was the most prominent of the high places at the time. once solomon has made the sacrifices, in a dream god appears to solomon and grants him a wish, so solomon asks for wisdom. since solomon asked wisely rather than asking for riches, his wish for wisdom is granted, and solomon surpassed the egyptians and cedemites in wisdom, his fame spreading among the neighbouring nations. solomon also uttered thousands of songs and proverbs. ;
solomon's judgment (1 kings 3:16-28) -two prostitutes come to solomon and ask him to settle an argument between them as to who is the mother of a particular baby. solomon asks for a sword to cut the baby in half to be split between the two women. when the first prostitute tells him to give the baby to the other rather than kill it she proves herself to be the mother with her love for the child. solomon gives her the baby.

solomon's officials (1 kings 4:1-19, and 5:7-8) - an extensive list is given of the officials of solomon's court. the commissaries, one for each month of the year, provide the food for solomon and his guests, as well as for his horses, and the various locations are listed that they source the food from. ;

the story of the construction of the temple of solomon (1 kings 5:15-7:51): hiram of tyre, a "friend" (that is,  political ally) of david's, sends an embassy to solomon, causing solomon to propose to build a temple. solomon and hiram enter into a trade agreement so that solomon can obtain the necessary raw materials. solomon enlists several workers via conscription, and solomon's men, those of hiram, and the gebalites (that is,  from biblos), prepare the temple, of which an extensive description is given. solomon also builds a palace for himself, which is described as well. a bronze worker, somewhat confusingly also called hiram (named hiram-abi by chronicles, i.e. hiram is my father), is brought from tyre to do solomon's metal work. two columns - named jachin and boaz - are built next to the temple door, and the temple is generally designed like those of hadad in tyre's vassal states.

the story of the moving the ark to the temple (1 kings 8:1-9:9) - the elders of israel, and the israelite princes, come to solomon for the moving of the ark from zion. while the priests move the ark, a sacrifice is made which is so substantial that it cannot be counted. finally, when the ark arrives in the temple, and the priests that had been carrying it return outside, a dark cloud fills the temple, which solomon says is where yahweh intends to dwell forever. solomon then extracts a promise from yahweh to uphold the davidic covenant, and to return to the aid of the people if they sin but later repent.

the story of cabul (1 kings 9:10-14) - after twenty years of giving solomon the supplies that he wished for, hiram is given twenty cities in galilee by solomon, which became known as cabul, since hiram wasn't satisfied with them.

an account of solomon's building projects (1 kings 9:15-25) - solomon uses slave labour to build several cities for storing supplies. amongst these is gezer, which had previously existed but was burnt to the ground by pharaoh, who returned it to solomon's ownership as a dowry. for this building programme, solomon enslaved every canaanite still living in the land. solomon also builds millo as soon as pharaoh's daughter moves from zion to her newly built palace. ;

the story of the queen of sheba (1 kings 10:1-10, and 10:13) - the queen of sheba visits solomon and tests his wisdom, bringing with her a large retinue, and precious expensive things. solomon's replies leave her breathless at his wisdom, and she is further impressed by his waiters, and banquet, and therefore gives solomon some of her precious things. before she returns to her homeland, solomon gives her everything that she asks for, and other presents. ;

solomon's wealth (1 kings 4:20-5:6, 9:26-28, 10:11-12, and 10:14-29) - solomon's empire stretched all the way from the euphrates to egypt (though quite how it got this big is not explained), and the many vassal states paid him tribute. he also had extravagant banquets every day, and owned thousands of horses. solomon built a fleet in ezion-geber, near elath, and hiram staffs him with seamen, who collect a large amount of gold from ophir and bring it to solomon. solomon uses the gold to make goblets and utensils and so forth, even creating a throne made from ivory and inlaid with gold. hiram's fleet brings further expensive materials from ophir besides the gold, such as ivory, silver (which, according to the text, at the time was worthless), and monkeys. in addition to the gold from hiram's fleet, from merchants, and from the arab kings, all the visitors to solomon's court bring with them expensive tributes, hence solomon grew richer than anyone else on earth. solomon also traded horses.

solomon's harem (1 kings 11:1-13) - apart from his egyptian wife, solomon also had over 700 wives and 300 concubines from nations that the mizvot forbid intermarriage with. the wives make solomon polytheistic, worshipping the gods of his wives, such as astarte, milcom, and chemosh, even building high places to them opposite jerusalem. so yahweh promises solomon that a part of the kingdom will be removed and given to another during the reign of solomon's descendants. ;

the story of hadad (1 kings 11:14-22 and 11:25b) - hadad, the sole survivor of king david's , fled to egypt. having won favour with the pharaoh, hadad was given in marriage to the sister of queen tahpenes, the wife of pharaoh. hadad and his wife have a son, whom pharaoh brings up as his own. hadad later requests permission from pharaoh to return to his own country, and he becomes king of edom. ;

rezon (1 kings 11:23-25a) - a man named rezon fled from hadadezer, the king of zobah, when king david defeats hazadezer's army. rezon gathered a group of men and took over as king of damascus, seceding from solomon's empire.


the story of rehoboam (1 kings 11:41-12:1, 12:3-19, 12:20b-24, and 14:21-31a) - when solomon died, his son, rehoboam, was proclaimed king at shechem. the people appeal to rehoboam to have their servitude lightened, and so he seeks the advice first of the elders and then of the youths. the elders suggest complying with the wishes, but rehoboam decides to go with the advice of the youths, namely to enforce even heavier servitude. this results in rebellion, and when rehoboam sends out adoram, the man in charge of forced labour, the people stone adoram to death. rehoboam is forced to flee to jerusalem as only judah remains loyal to him, and there he plans an attack using the army of benjamin and judah against the forces of israel. however, a man of god, named shemiah, is told by god to tell rehoboam not to fight, and when rehoboam is told this, he complies. later in his reign, shishak, the pharaoh, attacks, looting the temple and palace, leaving rehoboam compelled to use bronze to replace the golden shields of solomon that shishak had taken.

the story of jeroboam (1 kings 11:26-40, 12:2, and 12:25-32) - the man in charge of the work force from the house of joseph, jeroboam, bumps into ahijah, a prophet from shiloh, when jeroboam's task, the construction of millo, is complete. ahijah spontaneously tore his cloak into twelve parts and gave ten pieces to jeroboam as a symbol of god's will, explaining that the division is owing to solomon turning to heathen practices. solomon subsequently tries to have jeroboam killed for treason, but he escapes to the protection of the egyptian pharaoh, only returning when he hears that solomon's son has succeeded him as king. when israel rebels against rehoboam, they appoint jeroboam as their new king, and jeroboam establishes shechem as his capital and then moves to penuel. however, jeroboam perceives that a religion centralised at jerusalem, particularly the annual pilgrimage to there, is a threat to independence, and so establishes cult centres at the very edges of his own kingdom, putting up golden calves at bethel and at dan, saying "here is your god". jeroboam also appoints non-levites to the priesthood. ;

the story of the fasting man of god (1 kings 12:33-13:34) - at a rival ceremony in bethel to the traditional one at jerusalem, jeroboam prepares to make a sacrifice. at that moment, a man of god (who is not named), prophesies to jeroboam about a future destruction of the priests and worship at bethel. jeroboam orders that the man be seized, but his arm freezes and the altar collapses, so jeroboam takes this as a sign and appeals to the man of god. the man of god restores jeroboam's arm, but refuses jeroboam's hospitality as the man of god was ordered to fast by god, and to return home immediately. an old prophet from bethel (who is not named) follows the man of god, and offers his own hospitality, but it too is rejected. then the old prophet states that god had told him to offer his hospitality, so the man of god accepts, but is killed by a lion as he had broken the fast. then the old prophet mourns the man, buries him, and requests to be buried in the same grave.

the story of abijah of israel (1 kings 14:1-20) - jeroboam's son and heir, abijah, becomes sick, so jeroboam sends his wife, in disguise, to the prophet ahijah, to ask what can be done. ahijah replies that jeroboam's canaanite practices have condemned his dynasty to destruction, and abijah is doomed from the moment the wife returns to the son. duly, when the wife returns to tirzah and enters her house, the son dies.

the story of abijah of judah (1 kings 14:31b-15:8a) - after rehoboam dies, abijah (named as abijam in kings but abijah in chronicles), his son, succeeds him as king of judah. abijam appears to be the grandson (or otherwise a descendant) of absalom by his mother's side. abijam continued the war against jeroboam to conquer israel. a more full account of the war is given in chronicles.

the story of asa of judah (1 kings 15:8b-24a): abijam's son, asa, succeeds him as king of judah, and he quickly deposed maacah, his grandmother, from having any authority, as she supports the canaanite religious practices. asa also burns his grandmother's asherah. during asa's reign there is a perpetual war between him and baasha, the king of israel, who ben-hadad, king of aram, was supporting. asa bought ben-hadad's loyalty by sending him what remained of the treasures of the temple and his palace, so ben-hadad changes sides and attacks several cities, and the regions of the tribes of dan and naphtali. baasha retreats to his capital rather than continue fortifying raamah, so asa dismantles the fortifications and uses them to build geba. in his old age, asa had infirm feet. ;

the story of baasha (1 kings 15:25-16:6a) - when jeroboam died, his son, nadab, took over as king of israel. however, baasha, the son of ahijah, plots against nadab, and while nadab is besieging gibbethon. becoming king in nadab's stead, baasha then slaughters all the remaining relatives of jeroboam. during baasha's reign, there is a permanent war between asa and baasha, and although ben-hadad originally supported baasha, he changed to asa's side, capturing several large areas of the land, and causing baasha to retreat back to his capital, tirzah. a prophet, named jehu, is told by yahweh that baasha's actions are to be condemned, so jehu tells baasha. ;

the story of zimri (1 kings 16:6b-20) - after the death of baasa, he is succeeded by his son, elah. however, one of his leading commanders, zimri, plots against him, and while elah is getting drunk, zimri strikes him dead. zimri then slaughters all the remaining relatives of baasa and takes over the throne of israel. the army, however, proclaim omri, their general, as the king, and lay siege to tirzah, where zimri is located. zimri decides to burn his palace to the ground, killing himself.

the story of omri (1 kings 16:15b-19, 16:21-28a) having been proclaimed king by the army, omri besieges zimri, who then dies in a fire. subsequently, only half of israel support omri, the other half supporting a man named tibni, to be king. the civil war ends with omri and his supporters as victor. omri later constructs a new capital at samaria, and moves there. despite the many monumental achievements and constructions that are archaeologically attributed to the period normally identified for his reign, the book of kings neglects to mention any of these, preferring to portray omri as an insignificant heretic that happened to become king and then, later, die.

the story of elijah and the widow (1 kings 17:1-24) god ordains that no rain shall fall while he is served by a man from tishbe, named elijah, or at least this is the case according to elijah. elijah is sent to a stream, and fed by ravens, day and night, but when the stream dries up, due to the lack of rain, he is sent on to a widow, who will wait on him. demanding from the widow water and bread, elijah is met with the response that there is not enough flour or oil. elijah, however, promises that the flour and oil will last until the rains return, which comes true. the widow's son later grows sick, and stops breathing, so she accuses elijah of making this happen. elijah responds by laying out the son's body on his own bed, stretching himself over on the body three times, and then praying, whereupon the son comes back to life.

the story of elijah and the prophets of ba'al (1 kings 16:28b-33, and 18:1-46) - after the death of omri, his son, ahab, becomes the king. ahab marries jezebel, and worships hadad (often referred to by the epithet ba'al - meaning lord), building a totem and temple to his worship. jezebel slaughters the prophets of yahweh, though some are rescued by obadiah, ahab's vizier. meanwhile, the famine grows bitter, and elijah is sent by god to ahab, with obadiah joining him on his way. when elijah and ahab meet, they trade insults, with elijah calling ahab a sinner due to his religious practices, and ahab calling elijah the disturber of israel. elijah then challenges hadad worship, demanding all of israel attend mount carmel. at carmel, elijah announces he will sacrifice a bull to yahweh, and he expects that the worshippers of hadad will sacrifice a bull to hadad, stating that the real god will respond. when there is no response from the sacrifice to baal, which elijah mercilessly mocks, he rebuilds the older altar to yahweh, makes the sacrifice, and a fire appears from heaven and consumes it. the people convert from worship of hadad to that of yahweh en-masse, and elijah has the throats of the prophets of hadad slit at a river. a storm subsequently gathers, and elijah and ahab race to jezreel, elijah staying in front.

the story of hiel and the rebuilding of jericho (1 kings 16:34) - during the reign of ahab, a man named hiel rebuilds jericho from its ruins. however, his sons die during construction, fulfilling a prophecy that joshua had made.

the story of elijah's flight to horeb (1 kings 19:1-21) - after ahab has told jezebel what has happened, she seeks revenge against elijah, who flees beer-sheba, and goes into the desert. elijah prays for death, but is ordered by an angel to eat and drink, so he walks for 40 days and nights to horeb. on the mountain, there are a series of phenomona (that could easily be a dramatic description of a volcano), and then a faint whisper asking elijah why he is present. after elijah explains, he is ordered to go to anoint hazael as the next king of aram (elisha does this as well), jehu as king of israel (elisha does this as well), and elisha as his own successor, and to demand that they slaughter everyone except those who devoutly worship yahweh. elisha, a plowman, readily follows elijah, even killing his oxen, and burning them as a sacrifice, having broken up his plowing equipment to use as fuel.

the story of the first siege of samaria (1 kings 20:1-21) - ben-hadad, the king of aram, lays siege to samaria, and ahab gives up his treasure, harem, and sons. ben-hadad then further demands to be allowed to ransack ahab's property, but the elders of israel disuade ahab from agreeing, angering ben-hadad. a prophet arrives and tells ahab that he will win, so ahab gathers the army of israel together, and they launch a surprise attack, causing the aramaeans to flee. ;

the story of the battle of aphek (1 kings 20:22-43) - the servants of ben-hadad tell him to attack on the plains, as the god of israel is one of mountains, so ben-hadad does just this, going to aphek, but the prophet returns and tells ahab that he will win, so ahab gathers his army, and strikes down the enemy. the aramaeans flee into the city of aphek, but its walls collapse. the servants of ben-hadad tell him that the kings of israel are merciful, so they are sent to ahab to beg for mercy, and ahab grants it. meanwhile, on the orders of yahweh, a prophet tells a companion to strike him, but the companion refuses, so the companion is killed by a lion. once again the prophet tells a (different) companion to strike him, but this time the companion does so, and wounds him. the prophet pretends to the king that he was wounded in battle, and that he had been told to guard another man, on pain of death, but the other man escaped. the king of israel consequently tells the prophet that he has condemned himself, but the prophet tells the king that the king has condemned himself, as the prophet had doomed ben-hadad to destruction, and mercy wasn't approved by god.

the story of naboth's vineyard (1 kings 21:1-29) - a vineyard by the palace of ahab is owned by a man named naboth, but ahab tries to buy it for a reasonable price and exchange of land, so that he can turn it into a vegetable garden. naboth, however, refuses to give up his ancestral land, which angers ahab, and causes jezebel to arranges for naboth to be falsely accused of blasphemy and treason, and for him to be stoned to death. once naboth has been killed, jezebel tells ahab, and he sets off for naboth's vineyard, but meets elijah there. elijah prophecies that ahab's dynasty will be eaten by dogs and by the birds. ahab then tears his clothes, so elijah is told by yahweh that ahab's penitance has bought him time.

the story of the battle of ramoth-gilead (1 kings 22:1-40a, and 22:54) - after a period of peace between aram and israel, jehoshaphat of judah approaches the king of israel and enters a pact to help take back ramoth-gilead from aram. jehoshaphat asks for consultation with a prophet that is not one of the yes-men, the only one meeting this requirement being micaiah (son of imlah), who the (unidentified) king of israel hates. zedekiah (son of chenaanah) made horns of iron to kill the king of aram with. despite the other prophets predicting success, micaiah predicts total failure, so zedekiah slaps him. the king of israel orders micaiah to be seized and put in prison until the king returns from the war, and then disguises himself to enter the battle. conversely, the king of aram orders his men to only attack the king of israel, and though some mistake jehoshaphat for the king, his battle cry makes them realise he is not. a randomly fired arrow, by fluke, hits the disguised king of israel, and he eventually dies from blood loss as the battle rages around him. the king's body is washed at the pool of samaria, and the blood on his chariot is licked up by the dogs, fulfilling elijah's prophecy about ahab.

the story of jehoshaphat (1 kings 15:24b and 22:41-51a): jehosaphat succeeds his father, asa, as king of judah. although jehoshaphat worships yahweh, he permits the high places to continue existing. like solomon, jehoshaphat sent ships to ophir for gold, but this time they were recked at ezion-gezer. ;

the story of ahaziah of israel (1 kings 22:40b, and 1 kings 22:52-2 kings 1:18) - ahaziah, ahab's son, succeeds him as king of israel. ahaziah falls through the lattice of his roof terrace, and so sends messengers to ask the god of ekron that he worships, hadad (referred to as ba'al and baalzebub, a satirical corruption of baalzebul - prince baal), if he would recover from the injury. elijah is sent by an angel to intercept the messengers, and to tell them that ahaziah is doomed. the men are duly informed by elijah, and are sent back to ahaziah. after hearing them describe elijah, ahaziah recognises that elijah gave them the message, so he sends men to ask elijah to visit him. elijah then prophecies that the men will be killed by divine fire, and this duly occurs. ahaziah again sends men to elijah, and again elijah prophecies, and the men are immediately killed by divine fire. the third time men are sent, their leader begs elijah to listen, and an angel tells elijah to go with them, so he does, and tells ahaziah that he will die to his face, which comes true.

the story of the last days of elijah (2 kings 2:1-18) - elisha and elijah are on their way to gilgal, but elijah tells elisha to remain, but elisha insists on going with him. on reaching bethel, the prophets there tell elisha that god is due to take elijah on that day, but elisha insists he already knows. elijah tells elisha to remain, but elisha again insists on going with him. and so they go to jericho, where the same events occur. at the jordan, elijah rolls up his mantle and touches the waters, which duly part, and the two cross on dry land. a flaming chariot and horses then come and collect elijah and take him to heaven. elisha then picks up elijah's mantle, which had fallen, strikes the waters of the jordan, which part, and then crosses back over. ;

stories of the minor miracles of elisha (2 kings 2:19-24, 4:1-7, 4:38-44, and 6:1-7) once, the inhabitants of the city (not explicitly identified, but implicitly assumable to be jericho) complain to elisha about the poor state of the water and the land, so elisha sprinkles salt on a spring to purify it, as it is "to this day". elisha goes to bethel, where a large number of small boys shout "baldy" at him, so elisha curses them. because of this insult, god sends two bears come out of the forest to tear 42 of the boys to pieces, killing them. a widow of a member of the prophet's guild complains to elisha that her husband's creditors want to enslave her children to pay his debts, so elisha tells her to fill as many vessels as possible with the oil that she owns, and to sell it, and miraculously the small amount of oil fills all the containers that she is able to find. during a famine, elisha has his servants make vegetable stew for the guild of prophets at gilgal, but one of them adds wild gourds to the stew. when realising that they have been poisoned, the guild complains to elisha, who adds grain to the pot, and serves it to the people instead, who suffer no ills. a man from baal-shalishah brings elisha twenty loaves, and elisha manages to feed a hundred people with them, miraculously dividing each loaf between five people, and there are some left-overs. the guild of prophets move to the jordan to build themselves a larger home, and while doing so the head slips off an axe into the river, but elisha throws a stick in and the iron axe head floats to the surface.

the story of jehoram of israel (2 kings 1:17b and 3:1-27): - due to ahaziah (king of israel) being childless, upon his death, his brother, jehoram, succeeds him as king of israel. moab stops sending tribute to israel once jehoram takes over, and raises its army against israel. jehoram responds by makes a pact with judah, and the combined forces of israel, judah, and edom (a vassal of judah), set out to attack moab. however, the water supply dries up, and they consult elisha for help. elisha reluctantly agrees to assist them, and, going into a trance, prophecies water and victory. vast quantities of water then come from the direction of edom, filling the wells, and covering the ground. from a distance, the moabites, mistaking the water for blood, think that israel, judah, and edom, have attacked each other, so the moabites seek out the spoils. when the moabites reach the camp of israel, the israelites launch a surprise attack, vanquish the moabites, and cast stones on their fields and block their springs. the moabites are entrapped in a city, and is besieged, so the king, having failed to escape to get reinforcements, sacrifices his son to chemosh. the sacrifice results in israel being defeated. jehoram later joins ahaziah (king of judah) in battle against aram, but while recovering from the wounds inflicted in the battle is killed in a conspiracy, in which ahaziah is also killed.

the story of elisha and the shunemite woman (2 kings 4:8-37 and 8:1-6) - when elisha visits shunem, an influential woman asks him to dine with her, and consequently he dined with her each time he was in shunem. the woman decides to prepare a room for him so that he can stay overnight, and so elisha asks his servant how he can repay the woman. the servant tells elisha that the woman is childless and her husband is old, so elisha tells the woman that she will become pregnant, which comes true. years later, while reaping the fields, the child, a boy, complains that his head hurts, and then abruptly dies. the mother sets off to find elisha to tell him, and when elisha is informed, he sends his servant to put the staff of elisha on top of the boy. the boy remains dead, so elisha himself goes to the boy, and twice lies on top of him, placing his hands in the boy's hands and his lips on the boy's lips, and the boy's body becomes warm. the third time he lies on the boy, the boy sneezes and awakens. elisha later warns the woman, who has become a widow, of an approaching seven year famine, so she leaves the land. after the famine is over, the woman returns, and happens to pass the king at exactly the same moment that elisha's servant is telling the king about the resurrection of the woman's son. the king consequently assigns an official to her, and orders that the woman's land be restored to her.

the story of naaman (2 kings 5:1-27) - naaman, commander of aram's forces, captured a girl from israel during one of his campaigns. the girl tells naaman, who suffers from leprosy, that elisha can heal him. the king of aram therefore sends naaman to elisha with letters of recommendation. elisha orders naaman to wash in the jordan sevenfold, which angers naaman, since there were closer rivers, but he is persuaded to wash in the jordan anyway, and is cured. naaman asks elisha how he can be repayed, but all elisha will accept is dedication to yahweh alone, which naaman agrees to. elisha's servant thinks this a bit too light, so he goes after naaman and suggests he donate money and two festal garments, which naaman does. however, when the servant returns to elisha, elisha is angry about his action and curses gehazi with the leprosy that naaman had had.

the story of the battle of dothan (2 kings 6:8-23) once upon a time (c.f. the masoretic text of 2 kings 6:8), the (unidentified) king of aram was at war with the (unidentified) king of israel, but elisha told the king of israel all of the secret plans that the king of aram had made, so undermining his tactics. the king of aram is angered by this and so sends an army to kill elisha at dothan. elisha is not worried by this turn of events, and shows his servant that he is defended by a mountainside full of chariots of fire and horses, that were hidden from the servant's view. elisha, by a prayer, strikes the army of aram blind, then leads them to samaria, where he restores their sight. at samaria, elisha orders the king of israel to be hospitable to the aramaean army, and not to harm them. after a feast, the aramaeans leave, and the aramaeans never return again to israel.

the story of the second siege of samaria (2 kings 6:24-7:20) somewhat contradicting the previous sentence, ben-hadad, king of aram, lays siege to samaria. the siege causes inflation, and a famine that is so severe that some people have started eating other people's children. the (unnamed) king of israel blames yahweh for the tragedy, and refuses to trust yahweh anymore, but elisha prophecies that the an assassin has been sent against the king of israel, and also that the inflation will end, and reverse. four lepers realise that staying neutral, or entering the famished israelite city, is a no-win situation for them, so they decide to go to the king of aram, since at least there is a chance of survival. the lepers discover that the aramaeans had fled, having mistaken some sounds for a large army, and fearing that israel had hired hittite and borderland mercenaries. after helping themselves to the food and treasure, the lepers decide to tell the people of samaria that the aramaeans have gone. although the king of israel does not believe them, his servants check for themselves, and when it becomes known to the rest of the population, the aramaean camp is plundered, ending the famine.

the story of the accession of hazael (2 kings 8:7-15) - when ben-hadad, king of aram, lies sick, elisha happens to be visiting aram by chance. the king therefore sends hazael to consult elisha about the king's illness. elisha is uneasy, prophesying that the king will not survive, and hazael will become the new king and slaughter the israelites. hazael is shocked, and questions how he could become king (despite elijah already having anointed him as the next king of aram, some while ago), but when he returns, he lies to ben-hadad and says that elisha had prophesied a recovery. the next day, hazael smothers the king to death with a water soaked cloth, and becomes king in his place. ;

the story of jehoram of judah (1 kings 22:51b and 2 kings 8:16-24a) - jehoram, the son of jehoshaphat, succeeds him as king of judah. jehoram makes a pact with israel, marrying into their royal family, though this results in him following their religious practices rather than the more yahwistic ones of his own father. edom, previously on judah's side, revolts, and so jehoram battles them, but is surrounded. jehoram manages to escape, but his army flees, and edom gains its independence. the town of libnah also revolts against jehoram. ;

the story of ahaziah/jehoahaz of judah (2 kings 8:24b-29 and 9:27-29) when jehoram (king of judah) dies, his son, named as ahaziah in kings and as jehoahaz in chronicles (both names are equivalent, they are the same theophory as suffix and prefix respectively), rules over judah in his place. due to their family connection, ahaziah supports jehoram (king of israel) at the battle of ramoth-gilead against hazael, and later visits jehoram while he is convalescing from his battle wounds. while visiting the convalescent, the forces of jehu attack him and he flees, but is fatally wounded, and dies at megiddo.

the story of jehu (2 kings 9:1-10:31) - elisha sends a prophet to anoint jehu, a son of jehoshaphat, as the king (despite elijah already having done this). once the prophet does this, jehu organises a conspiracy against jehoram (king of israel), who was recovering at jezreel from wounds inflicted by hazael. when jehu's troops approach joram, joram sends messengers to meet jehu, but as jehu forbids them to return to joram, joram is forced to meet jehu himself. they meet in the field of naboth, and jehu accuses jehoram's mother, jezebel, of fornication and witchcraft, so jehoram flees shouting that this is treason. however, on his way back, jehoram is shot dead by jehu with an arrow, and his body is taken to the field of naboth in order to fulfil a prophecy. ahaziah, the king of judah, sees this, and flees, but is mortally wounded by jehu, and dies at meggido. jehu heads to jezreel, and when she learns of this, jezebel puts on makeup, and calls down accusing him of murder, and asking if all is well. jehu shouts out and persuades the palace eunuchs to defenestrate jezebel, sending her to a gory death. jehu challenges israel to oppose him, but, frightened by him, they submit, and in accordance with his wishes, decapitate all the descendants of ahab, sending jehu the heads. jehu also slaughters every descendant in jezreel, and kills the kinsmen of ahaziah (king of judah) in a pit. jehu then tricks the worshippers of hadad (also known as ba'al) by promising that he will worship hadad, asking for them to gather at the temple of hadad to make a sacrifice, evicting all the worshippers of yahweh from the temple, closing the doors, and then slaughtering everyone inside. the temple of hadad is then destroyed, and turned into a toilet. ;

the story of jehoahaz of israel (2 kings 10:32-35a, and 13:1-9a) during jehu's reign, hazael conquers gilead. after jehu dies, his son, jehoahaz, becomes the new king, of the much reduced israel. under the yoke of hazael, jehoahaz appeals to yahweh, and a saviour is sent to free israel from hazael (at no point does it explain who this saviour is, or what they do to save israel). hazael's aggression has resulted in jehoahaz's army being reduced to a pittance.

the story of athaliah (2 kings 11:1-20) - athaliah, the mother of ahaziah, on discovering the death of her son, sets out to kill the entire remaining royal family, and take the throne herself. however, her sister manages to hide jehoash (sometimes abbreviated as joash), the son of ahaziah, in the temple of yahweh. six years later, the priest summons the captain of the guards and carian mercenaries, and shows them jehoash. the priest has the guards and mercenaries surround the temple and defend it, while he publicly anoints jehoash as king. although athaliah discovers this, and shouts that this is treason, the priest has athaliah taken away and killed. the people then go and obliterate the temple of hadad, and slaughter its priest. ;

the story of jehoash of judah (2 kings 12:1-22a) - jehoash becomes a king loyal to the worship of yahweh, though not insistent on centralised worship, and passes a law that the temple priests should get to keep the money offered at the temple, on the condition that they also take responsibility for carrying out repairs to it. while they keep the money, they fail to make repairs, so the king complains, and the priests choose to reject the money rather than be responsible for repairs. the money is put into a chest and when it becomes full, the contents are smelted together and used to pay for repairs, which a separate individual is given oversight of. ironically, after hazael successfully besieges gath, when he mounts an attack on jerusalem, jehoash is forced to buy him off with the treasures from the temple. in a later conspiracy, jehoash is killed by his own men.

the story of jehoash of israel (2 kings 13:9b-13a, 13:13c-25 and 14:13-16a): jehoash succeeds jehoahaz, his father, as king of israel. jehoash goes to elisha, who is dying, for help against hazael. elisha forces jehoash to shoot an arrow through the window, and then prophecies that his doing so has ensured victory against hazael. elisha also makes jehoash strike the ground with some arrows, and so jehoash does so three times. elisha states that this will ensure three victories, but by not striking the ground five or six times, has denied himself total outright victory. elisha then dies, and is buried. while another funeral is taking place, moabite raiders attack, so the mourners drop the body into elisha's grave and flee, but when the body touches elisha's, the man comes back to life. hazael dies and is succeeded by the weaker ben-hadad, who is defeated thrice by jehoash, fulfilling elisha's promise. jehoash is later forced to fight the aggressive king of judah, but succeeds and captures him. jehoash goes on to jerusalem where part of the walls are torn down, and jehoash takes the treasure of the palace and temple. ;

the story of amaziah (2 kings 12:1-22b, 14:1-14 and 14:17-21) - amaziah, the son of jehoash (the king of judah), succeeds him as king of judah. amaziah slaughters those who killed his father, though is merciful enough to spare their descendants. amaziah then goes on military campaigns, conquering the edomites. amaziah challenges jehoash (the king of israel), but jehoash responds with a parable about the thistle of lebanon. amaziah attacks anyway, and the two sides meet in battle, but judah is defeated, and amaziah is captured. later, amaziah, now free (without explanation), hears of a conspiracy against him, so flees to lachish, but is pursued there and killed.

the story of jeroboam (ii) (2 kings 13:13b and 14:23-29a) - jeroboam becomes king of israel after the death of jehoash (the king of israel), his father. despite following canaanite religion (for which the books of kings, chronicles, hosea, joel, amos, and jonah, condemn him), jeroboam is otherwise a hero, as he manages to expand the boundaries of israel as far as the arabah, and defeats aram, returning hamath to israelite control, as had been prophesied. ;

the story of uzziah (2 kings 14:22, 14:29b-15:7b, 15:32-36, and 15:38a) - the son of amaziah, uzziah (kings mistakenly names him azariah, which in chronicles is instead the name of his high priest), succeeds him as king of judah, and rebuilds elath. however, uzziah suffers from leprosy, so his son, jotham, reigns as regent (chronicles states that uzziah was deposed by a rebellion of the priesthood, and was cursed with leprosy as a result, and sent to live with the lepers). the construction of a gate of the temple is attributed to jotham's mother. jotham formally becomes king when uzziah actually dies.

the story of menahem (2 kings 15:8-22a) - jeroboam is succeeded by zechariah, his son, as king of israel, but zechariah is soon killed by shallum, who reigns in his place. menahem hears about the assassination, and sets off to kill shallum, but is held up by the people of tappuah. after finally reaching shallum, and killing him, menahem exacts revenge on the people of tappuah by slaughtering their entire population. now that menahem has become king, the king of assyria, tiglath-pileser (referred to in 15:16-22a as if a different individual named pul, though this is actually just the throne name of tiglath-pileser) invades and menahem gives him money to employ him to strengthen menahem's own reign over judah, but tiglath-pileser just leaves with the money (in an inscription, tiglath-pileser describes this simply as him invading, forcing menahem to become a vassal, and receiving tribute). menahem taxes the population to raise the funds for the tribute.

the story of pekah (2 kings 15:22b-31 and 15:37) - when menahem dies, his son, pekahiah, succeeds him as king. however, pekah, the adjutant to pekahiah, conspires with the people from the eastern half of israel, gilead, and kills pekahiah, becoming king in his place. pekah enters into an alliance with rezin, the king of aram, to attack judah. supporting judah, now a vassal of assyria, tiglath-pileser invades israel, capturing several cities, and deporting their populations. hoshea conspires against pekah, killing him and becoming king in his place (though an inscription by tiglath-pileser states that he killed pekah and placed hoshea on the throne himself).

the story of ahaz (2 kings 15:38b-16:20a) - ahaz becomes king of judah when jotham, his father, dies. the alliance between aram and israel besiege ahaz, and edom is able to recover elath, so ahaz responds by becomes a vassal of tiglath-pileser, who is subjugating israel. tiglath-pileser then attacks damascus (capital of aram), killing rezin, and deporting the inhabitants to another part of assyria. ahaz follows canaanite religious practices, sacrificing at the high places and asherah groves, and even immolating his son through the fire to moloch. as a consequence, when ahaz goes to damascus to meet tiglath-pileser, he is so impressed by the altar that he has a new altar made to the same design, and replaces the altar at the jerusalem temple with it. ahaz makes further alterations to the temple layout, even removing the throne emplacement, in deference to the assyrian king.

the story of the lost ten tribes (2 kings 17:1-41 and 18:9-12) after taking control of what remained of israel, hoshea is forced to become a vassal of the assyrians, due to aggressive behaviour by shalmaneser v (unnumbered in the bible). however, hoshea resents this, and not only fails to send the annual tribute to assyria, but also sends envoys to sais, the egyptian king, for help. in consequence, shalmaneser occupies israel and besieges samaria for three years. samaria falls to sargon ii (the new king of assyria after shalmaneser dies during the siege, though the bible does not indicate this, and refers to him simply as the king of assyria without acknowledging that this is not shalmaneser), and the nine tribes of israel are completely deported to other regions of the assyrian empire, becoming the lost ten tribes (tradition considers there to be ten lost tribes, though israel contained only nine). the writer remarks that the exile of israel is punishment for it following heathen practices. sargon uses other assyrian people to populate the now fairly empty israel, and they worship their own gods, though sargon sends a few israelite priests back to teach the israelite religion, which becomes regarded by the new population polytheistically. ;

the story of hezekiah's reform (2 kings 16:20b, and 18:1-6) the son of ahaz, hezekiah, succeeds him as king of judah, and institutes a far reaching religious reform, centralising the religion to the temple at jerusalem. in iconoclastic pursuit of the reform, hezekiah destroyed the high places, pillars, and asherah, as well as the nehustan, which moses himself is alleged to have created.

an account of the assyrian siege of jerusalem (2 kings 18:13-19:37) - hezekiah rebels against assyria and partially subjugates the land of the philistines (2 kings 18:8). however, sennacherib, the king of assyria, captures several cities in judah, and so hezekiah uses the temple funds, even breaking up the gold plated doors, to pay tribute to sennacherib. sennacherib sends messengers to jerusalem to say that hezekiah's ally egypt is weak, that hezekiah has offended israel's god, and that jerusalem couldn't even muster two thousand men to fight against the oncoming assyrians (he makes his point by offering to supply the horses if jerusalem can find the men). sennacherib offers a the people a life of ease if they will submit, but the people of judah respond with silence, as hezekiah has ordered them. sennacherib is briefly distracted by battling the ethiopians that have launched an attack upon him, and so sends hezekiah a letter reminding him that other nations' gods have not saved them from him. apparently by way of preparation for any siege, hezekiah constructs a conduit and pool providing water to jerusalem. (note:  this pool is not mentioned in the account of the siege in 2 kings, but may be referenced in 2 kings 20:20b and 2 chronicles 32:3-5.)  hezekiah sends messengers to isaiah who prophecies that yahweh will protect jerusalem for the sake of the promise made to david, and the assyrians will not be able to besiege jerusalem. that night an angel kills one hundred eighty-five thousand men of the assyrian army, and the survivors return to assyria.  (there is an interesting interplay between this account and the assyrian account which states that hezekiah was "locked up like a caged bird", and paid tribute to sennacherib--though the assyrians put a good face on things, the desired end of a siege is usually to break into a city, not to keep the inhabitants pent up within it.) fulfilling isaiah's prophecy of divine retribution (or simply fulfilling the internal politics of assyria), sennacherib is killed by two of his own sons, and a third becomes king in his place.

the story of hezekiah's shadow (2 kings 20:1-20a, and 20:20c-21a): isaiah visits hezekiah on his deathbed to tell him to prepare for death, but when hezekiah prays that his faithfulness will be remembered by yahweh, yahweh instructs isaiah that 15 years have just been added to hezekiah's life. consequently, isaiah gets a poultice to apply to hezekiah's boil, and hezekiah miraculously recovers. at isaiah's instigation, yahweh causes the shadow on ahaz's sundial (early translations into english instead have hezekiah's shadow on ahaz's steps) to suddenly and noticeably extend backwards by an extra ten measures. merodach-baladan, the son of the babylonian king, sends get-well gifts to hezekiah, and so, from politeness, hezekiah shows the merodach-baladan's messengers his treasures. isaiah prophecies that having seen the treasure, babylon's greed will cause them to invade and take it away, and deport the people at the same time.

the story of manasseh (2 kings 20:21b-21:23 and 21:25-26a) - manasseh, son of hezekiah, becomes the next king, and completely reverts hezekiah's religious changes, which the writer blames for the later destruction of judah by babylon. the story of manasseh is abridged at this point, though the book of chronicles records that manasseh was taken prisoner by the babylonians, and treated so badly that, when released, he was a reformed man. many copies of the vulgate translation additionally record a prayer of manasseh which supposedly records manasseh's repentance. after his death, his penitance is shown to be in vain when his son, amon, perpetuates the rejection of hezekiah's reform, and refuses to repent. however, amon becomes the victim of a conspiracy when he is killed by his own servants. ;

the story of josiah 2 kings 21:24, and 21:26b-23:30a - a counter-conspiracy results in josiah, son of amon, being placed on the throne of judah. during his godly reign, josiah institutes repairs of the temple, during which the chief priest, hilkiah, discovers a book of the law. this newly discovered book is verified as genuine by the prophetess huldah, and the penitent josiah vows to enact all the newly discovered mitzvah within it (most scholars, both critical and apologetic, view the book as an early version of deuteronomy, for which reason, josiah's reform is often referred to as the deuteronomic reform). according to the narrative, no king before josiah was ever as devout or fulfilled all of the torah, and josiah is particularly zealous about his iconoclasm. necho ii leads an egyptian army to join that of assyria in attacking babylon, and josiah rides out and meets necho at the battle of megiddo, but is killed.

the story of jehoiakim (2 kings 23:30b-24:6a and 24:7) - the people appoint jehoahaz, a son of josiah, as the king in place of josiah, but necho imprisons jehoahaz, and deports him. necho appoints another son of josiah as the new king, who duly changes his name to jehoiakim. jehoiakim taxes the land to give tribute to necho, but the land is soon attacked by nebudchadnezzar, the babylonian king. easily defeated, jehoiakim becomes the vassal of babylon rather than egypt, and the babylonian empire reaches to the border of egypt, so egypt makes no further attempt to dominate the region. however, three years later, jehoiakim rebels, and raiders from the surrounding nations are sent by nebuchadnezzar to attack judah. though the account of jehoiakim is somewhat abridged and goes no further in the book of kings, an account of his rebellion, nebuchadnezzar's response, and jehoiakim's violent death at the hands of his own people, is present in the book of jeremiah.

the story of jeconiah (2 kings 24:6b, 24:8-12, and 25:27-30) - nebuchadnezzar appoints the son of jehoiakim, namely jeconiah, as the new king of judah. nebuchadnezzar attacks jerusalem (for an unexplained reason) and besieges it, so jehoniah and his court surrender and jehoiachim is taken captive. many decades later, evil-merodach, a later king of babylon, releases jehoaichin from prison, give him an allowance, and generally treats him favourably, for the rest of his days.

the story of zedekiah (2 kings 24:17-25:7) - nebuchadnezzar appoints the uncle of jehoiachim as the new king of judah, who duly changes his name to zedekiah (yahweh is zedek / yahweh is righteous). however, zedekiah rebels, and so nebuchadnezzar besieges jerusalem and breaches the city walls. although zedekiah flees, he is captured and taken to nebuchadnezzar, who has the sons of zedekiah killed in front of him, and then has zedekiah's eyes put out so that it is the last thing he has seen. zedekiah is then bound in chains and taken to babylon.

the story of the babylonian captivity (2 kings 24:13-16 and 25:8-21) - after jehoiachim's surrender, nebuchadnezzar deports everyone of any worth to babylon, including the army, the people of jerusalem, nobles, and craftsmen, as well as the treasures of jerusalem. once zedekiah's later rebellion is suppressed, nebudchadnezzar sends nebuzaradan to jerusalem, where he burns down the temple, palace, houses, and walls, and deports the treasures of the temple, and the population (excepting some of the poor), to babylon. the two highest priests of the temple, a scribe, a courtiers, five personal servants to zedekiah, and 60 people remaining in jerusalem, are taken to nebudchadnezzar and killed. ;

the story of gedaliah (2 kings 25:22-26) - the few people remaining in judah are put under the command of gedaliah, who promises the commanders of the army of judah that they will not be harmed as long as they remain loyal to babylon. however, one of the commanders, of royal descent, conspires against gedaliah, and has him killed, but the people are so afraid of what nebuchadnezzar's reaction might be, that almost the entire population of judah flee to egypt.

authorship.
the authorship, or rather compilation, of these books is uncertain. the sources of the narrative are explicitly given as:
the "book of the acts of solomon" (1 kings 11:41);
the "book of the chronicles of the kings of judah" (14:29; 15:7, 23, etc.);
the "book of the chronicles of the kings of israel" (14:19; 15:31; 16:14, 20, 27, etc.).

the date of its composition was perhaps some time between 561 bc, the date of the last chapter (2 kings 25), when jehoiachin was released from captivity by evil-merodach, and 538 bc, the date of the decree of deliverance by cyrus the great.

there are some portions that are almost identical to the book of jeremiah, for example, 2 kings 24:18-25 and jeremiah 52; 39:1-10; 40:7-41:10. there are also many undesigned coincidences between jeremiah and kings (2 kings 21-23 and jer. 7:15; 15:4; 19:3, etc.), and events recorded in kings of which jeremiah had personal knowledge.  because of this, traditionally jeremiah was credited the author of the books of kings. 

however, the book(s) plainly acknowledge several source texts in several places, and it is hence self evidently a compilation from earlier sources rather than an original work. a superficial examination of the books of kings makes clear the fact that they are a compilation and not an original composition, and the compiler (usually referred to as the redactor)  constantly cites certain of his sources. in the case of solomon it is the book of the acts of solomon (1 kings 11:41); for the northern kingdom it is the book of the chronicles of the kings of israel, which is cited seventeen times, that is,  for all the kings except jehoram and hoshea (e.g. 1 kings 15:31); and for the kings of judah it is the book of the chronicles of the kings of judah, which is cited fifteen times, that is,  for all the kings except ahaziah, athaliah, jehoahaz, jehoiachin, and zedekiah (e.g. 1 kings 15:7). as well as the text's own admission, the idea of the text being composed from multiple earlier sources is also supported by textual criticism. whether the editor had access to these chronicles, as they were deposited in the state archives, or simply to a history based upon them, can not with certainty be determined, though it is generally assumed that the latter was the case. 

an early supposition was that ezra, after the babylonian captivity, compiled them from official court chronicles of david, solomon, nathan, gad, and iddo, and that he arranged them in the order in which they now exist. however, it is more usually said that ezra was the compiler of the books of chronicles, an alternate history of the period of the kings, which was earlier in history treated as a single book together with the book of ezra and the book of nehemiah.

the majority of textual criticism is of the belief that, with the majority of deuteronomy, joshua, judges, and samuel, these works were originally compiled into a single text, the deuteronomic history, by a single redactor, the deuteronomist. the similarities between the text of deuteronomy and that of the book of jeremiah are so strong that many critical scholars view jeremiah as the deuteronomist, hence agreeing, in a round about sort of way, and for different reasons, with the traditional view concerning the authorship of kings.

object and method of work.

it was not the purpose of the compiler to give a complete history of the period covered by his work; for he constantly refers to these sources for additional details. he mentions as a rule a few important events which are sufficient to illustrate the attitude of the king toward the deuteronomic law, or some feature of it, such as the central sanctuary and the high places, and then proceeds to pronounce judgment upon him accordingly. each reign is introduced with a regular formula; then follows a short excerpt from one of his sources; after which an estimate of the character of the monarch is given in stereotyped phraseology; and the whole concludes with a statement of the king's death and burial, according to a regular formula (for example, compare 1 kings 15:1-9 with 1 kings 15:25-32).

the standpoint of the judgments passed upon the various kings as well as the vocabulary of the compiler indicates that he lived after the reforms of josiah (621 b.c.) had brought the deuteronomic law into prominence. how much later than this the book in its present form was composed, may be inferred from the fact that it concludes with a notice of jehoiachin's release from prison by evil-merodach (amil-marduk) after the death of nebuchadnezzar in 562. the book must have taken its present form, therefore, during the exile, and probably in babylonia. as no mention is made of the hopes of return which are set forth in isaiah 40-55, the work was probably concluded before 550. besides the concluding chapters there are allusions in the body of the work which imply an exilic date (e.g. 1 kings 8:34, 9:39; 2 kings 17:19-20, 23:26-27). to these may be added the expression beyond the river (1 kings 5:4), used to designate the country west of the euphrates, which implies that babylonia was the home of the writer.

time of redaction.

on the other hand, there are indications which imply that the first redaction of kings must have occurred before the downfall of the judean monarchy. the phrase unto this day occurs in 1 kings 8:8, 9:21, 12:19; 2 kings 8:22, 16:6, where it seems to have been added by an editor who was condensing material from older annals, but described conditions still existing when he was writing. again, in 1 kings 9:36, 15:4, and 2 kings 8:19, which come from the hand of a deuteronomic editor, david has, and is to have, a lamp burning in jerusalem; that is,  the davidic dynasty is still reigning. finally, 1 kings 8:29-31, 8:33, 8:35, 8:38, 8:42, 8:44, 8:48, 9:3, 11:36 imply that the temple is still standing. there was accordingly a pre-exilic book of kings. the work in this earlier form must have been composed between 621 and 586. as the glamour of josiah's reforms was strong upon the compiler, perhaps he wrote before 600. to this original work 2 kings 24:10-25:30 was added in the exile, and, perhaps, 23:31-24:9. in addition to the supplement which the exilic editor appended, a comparison of the masoretic text with the septuagint as represented in codices b and l shows that the hebrew text was retouched by another hand after the exemplars which underlie the alexandrine text had been made. thus in b and l, 1 kings 5:7 follows on 4:19; 6:12-14 is omitted; 9:26 follows on 9:14, so that the account of solomon's dealings with hiram is continuous, most of the omitted portion being inserted after 10:22. 2 kings 21, the history of naboth, precedes ch. 20, so that 20 and 22, which are excerpts from the same source, come together. such discrepancies prove sufficient late editorial work to justify the assumption of two recensions.

sources.

in brief outline the sources of the books appear to have been these: 
1 kings 1-2 are extracted bodily from the a source now known as the court history of david, which largely also constitutes 2 samuel 9-20. the redactor has added notes at 1 kings 2:2-4 and 2:10-12. ;
for the reign of solomon the text names its source as the book of the acts of solomon (11:41); but other sources were employed, and much was added by the redactor. ;
1 kings 3 is a prophetic narrative of relatively early origin, worked over by the redactor, who added verses 2-3, and 14-15. ;
1 kings 4:1-19 is presumably derived from the chronicle of solomon. ;
1 kings 4:20-5:14, "solomon's wealth and wisdom" (1 ki 4:20-34 esb), contains a small kernel of prophetic narrative which has been retouched by many hands, some of them later than the septuagint. ;
the basis of 5:15-7:51 was apparently a document from the temple archives; but this was freely expanded by the redactor, and 6:11-14 also by a later annotator. ;
1 kings 8:1-13, the account of the dedication of the temple, is from an old narrative, slightly expanded by later hands under the influence of the priestly source of the torah. ;
1 kings 8:14-66 is in its present form the work of the redactor slightly retouched in the exile. ;
1 kings 9:1-9 is the work of the redactor, but whether before the exile or during it is disputed. ;
1 kings 9:10-10:29 consists of extracts from an old source, presumably the book of the acts of solomon, pieced together and expanded by later editors. the order in the masoretic text differs from that in the septuagint. ;
1 kings 11:1-13 is the work of the redactor; ;
1 kings 11:14-22 is a confused account, perhaps based on two older narratives; ;
1 kings 11:26-31 and 39-40 probably formed a part of a history of jeroboam from which 12:1-20 and 14:1-18 were also taken. the extracts in chapter 11 have been set and retouched by later editors.

narratives and epitomes.

from chapter 12 of 1 kings onward, both 1&2 kings are characterized by an alternation of short notices which give epitomes of historical events, with longer narratives extracted from various sources. the following sections are short epitomes: 
1 kings 14:21-16:34;
1 kings 22:41-53;
2 kings 8:16-29;
2 kings 10:32-36;
2 kings 12:18-13:13;
2 kings 13:22-17:6 ;
in some cases short extracts are even here made in full, as in 14:8-14 and 16:10-16.

the longer narratives, which are frequently retouched and expanded by the redactor, are as follows: 
1 kings 12:1-20, 14:1-18, from an older narrative of jeroboam, to which 12:21-32 and 14:19-20 are additions;
12:33-13:34, a comparatively late story of a prophet;
17:1-19:21 and 21:1-29, an early prophetic narrative written in the northern kingdom (c.f. 19:3);
20:1-43 and 22:1-40, an early north-israelitish history of the syrian war in which ahab lost his life;
2 kings 1:1-8:15 and 9:1-10:31, north-israelitish narratives, not all from one hand, which are retouched here and there, as in 3:1-3, by the redactor;
11:1-12:17, a judean narrative of the overthrow of athaliah and the accession of joash;
13:14-21 and 14:8-14, two excerpts from material written in the northern kingdom (c.f. 14:11);
17:7-23 is the redactor's commentary on the historical notice with which the chapter opens;
17:24-41 is composite (c.f. 17:32, 17:34, and 17:41), probably written in the exile and retouched after the time of nehemiah;
18:1-20:21 is compiled by the redactor from three sources, the redactor himself prefixing, inserting, and adding some material;
21:1-26 is, throughout, the work of the redactor;
22:1-23:25 is an extract from the temple archives with slight editing;
23:29-25:30, the appendix of the exilic editor, is based on jeremiah 40:7-53:6. from jeremiah, too, the exilic editor drew his information, which he presented in briefer form.

numbering.
the numbering of the bible is usually considered to be fairly consistent throughout translations. however, most hebrew versions, as well as the new american bible, the official roman catholic translation, differ in the numbering of 1 kings 4-5 from other translations such as the king james version. one set of translations regards chapter 4 as ending at verse 20, while the other continues it for 14 verses that are placed at the start of chapter 5 in the first set. i.e.
1 kings 5:1-14 in the first set is 1 kings 4:21-34 in the second set;
1 kings 5:15-32 in the first set is 1 kings 5:1-18 in the second set;
1 kings 4:21-34 does not exist in the first set, while 1 kings 5:19-32 does not exist in the second set;

this article will follow the numbering of the hebrew versions and the nab, i.e. where 1 kings 4:21-34 does not exist, and 1 kings 5 has 32 verses.

peculiar textual features.
problems of dates.
the chronology of kings has several problematic areas. the duration of reigns for the kings of judah does not correspond correctly to their supposed times of accession compared to the reigns of the kings of israel. assigning the number of years after solomon that each king of judah reigned, by comparing the figure for their predecessor and the length of their predecessor's reign, simply does not equal the figure that you would obtain by comparing the figures for the kings of israel and which year the king of judah began to rule compared to the reign of the contemporary king of israel. the same issue, transposed, obviously applies to the kings of israel, and hence there are multiple different chronologies proposed for the period.

there are also external difficulties for the dating. the king that the book of kings names as ahaz is claimed within it to reign for only 16 years. however, some of the events during his reign are recorded elsewhere, and have an almost absolute consensus as to their dates, requiring ahaz to have at least ruled between 735bc and 715bc, a period of 20 years.

problems of names.
the name hadad and compounds of it occur at several locations within the text. hadad is the name of the canaanite deity that is often who the term ba'al (which means lord) refers to. consequently many kings from the region surrounding israel and judah would take throne names that were theophory in hadad (or ba'al), which has can lead to much confusion in the text, and some difficulty in identifying which people are the same individuals and which are different:
hadadezer (hadad+ezer) is an assyrian king;
hadad is the name of a king of edom;
ben-hadad is the name of one or more kings of aram. although this name simply means son of hadad it does not necessarily mean that hadad was the name of the king's father, but simply that the king was a king (i.e. a son of hadad - the god);
king hadad is the name of a god (according to the text), i.e. hadad;

in addition, while ba'al is usually used to refer to hadad, the term baalzebub also appears as the name of a deity. ba'alzebub, meaning lord of the flies, is most likely to be a deliberate pun, by the anti-hadad writer, on the term ba'alzebul, meaning prince ba'al, i.e. hadad. even more confusing is the fact that some passages refer to a single king of assyria by two different names, whereas others refer simply to the king of assyria in several places but are actually talking about 2 separate historically attested kings, not the same individual.

this problem is compounded in the names of israelite and judahite kings, where theophoric suffixes and prefixes exist in el and yah/yahweh, namely ja...., jeho..., ....iah, ...el, and el..... it was common to drop the theophory in ordinary day to day life, so that, for example, daniel becomes simply dan. in some cases double theophory occurred, as for example in the name of the king of judah that contemporary cuneiform inscriptions record as jeconiah (je+con+iah), which the book of jeremiah drops one of the theophories to make the name simply choniah (chon+iah), while the book of kings moves both theophories next to each other making his name jehoiachin (jeho+iah+chon). similarly theophory was often flexible as to which end of names it occurred at for a single individual, so that the king of judah which the book of kings of names as ahaziah (ahaz + iah) is named by the book of chronicles as jehoahaz (jeho + ahaz) - ultimately this is the same name as had by the later king referred to as ahaz.

genealogical problems.


in the region of the omrides (that is the descendants of omri), there are remarkable co-incidences between the names of the kings of judah and those of israel, in that they are often identical; jehoram was king of israel while another jehoram was king of judah; jehoash son of jehoahaz was king of israel while another jehoash son of another jehoahaz was king of judah. as a consequence a number of scholars have proposed that this was a period in which judah and israel were united under one king, and by combining two different accounts of the same individual from the point of view of israel and of judah, the redactor of kings has split one historic set of individuals into two copies. 

this feature is compounded by the fact that unlike the masoretic text, on which most english bible translations are based (at least for the old testament), the septuagint version refers to athaliah as daughter of omri, rather than as daughter of the house of omri. a number of scholars have suggested that the septuagint represents the more original version, and hence that athaliah was in reality either the sister, half-sister, or wife, of ahab. since her character and the manner of her death are described by the bible to be similar to jezebel, the possibility that jezebel is merely a descriptive slur or nickname for athaliah has been raised. by equating the two, the genealogy can be simplified and a number of name duplications no longer occur. it is also possible that athaliah was daughter of jehoshaphat, and it was her marriage to ahab that formed the israel-judah alliance, with the biblical form of the genealogy being later censorship to make judah appear to have remained fairly religiously pure; this would explain how it was that she became queen over judah, in contrast to how the bible portrays her as a biological daughter of the king of israel.



the black obelisk of shalmaneser also refers to jehu as son of omri, rather than son of jehoshaphat as the bible would prefer it, especially since the bible portrays jehu as destroying the house of omri rather than helping perpetuate it. by treating the black obelisk as historically accurate, and thus making jehu a brother or half-brother to ahab, it becomes much clearer why jehu, who the bible portrays as a son of the king of judah, would become the head of a dynasty of kings over israel. jehu would in this situation be the wicked uncle who killed the rightful kings of israel and judah, attempting to usurp power, but only managing to hold onto israel, to which he had an ancestral claim.

organization.

the two books of kings comprise the fourth book in the second canonical division of hebrew scriptures: in the threefold division of the tanach, these books are ranked among the prophets. the present division into two books was first made by the septuagint, which numbers them as the third and fourth books of "kingdoms", the two books of samuel being considered the first and second books of kingdoms; this numbering was also followed in the vulgate with 1-4 kings, but most modern christian bibles have two books of samuel and two of kings.

in christianity.
the books of kings are frequently quoted or alluded to by (; ; , ; comp. ; ; comp. ; and , etc.).

external links.
online translations of the books of kings:
original text:
melachim aleph - kings a (hebrew - english at mechon-mamre.org);
melachim bet - kings b (hebrew - english at mechon-mamre.org);

jewish translations:
 1 kings at mechon-mamre (jewish publication society translation);
 2 kings at mechon-mamre (jewish publication society translation);
 melachim i - kings i (judaica press) translation with rashi's commentary at chabad.org ;
 melachim ii - kings ii (judaica press) translation with rashi's commentary at chabad.org ;
christian translations:
online bible at gospelhall.org;
king james bible online - chapter-indexed english translation.

related article:
 books of kings article  (jewish encyclopedia)  ;































</doc>
<doc id="8625254" title="sundhi" nonfiltered="157" processed="156" dbindex="157">
sundhi is a prominent caste in orissa. its main occupation is cultivating sara(local liquor).the caste is also found in the north east districts of andhra pradesh(srikakulam, vizianagaram and visakhapatnam). the caste is also called sondi in andhra pradesh. the caste is also spread in some parts of chattisgarh, bihar and west bengal.the caste is divided into two sects named upper sundhi and lower sundhi(also called behera sundhi).most of the sundhis are well educated, particularly in andhra pradesh. one of the rich sect in the upper coastal districts of andhra pradesh.the following are the surnames found in the north east coastal districts, kadambala, nemalipuri, mogulupuri, pandava, uttrakavata(uttarala), sahukari, kamsu, ratnala, nallana, labala, nilagiri, teegala, tulala, gajarao, sunnamuddi and so on



</doc>
<doc id="2466126" title="raimondo franchetti" nonfiltered="158" processed="157" dbindex="158">
baron raimondo franchetti has been the name of more than one italian baron, the most famous of whom lived from 1889 until his death in an airplane crash in the egyptian  desert in 1935. 
more information about him on v.isacchini, "il 10\b0 parallelo - vita di raimondo franchetti da salgari  alla guerra d'africa", aliberti, reggio emilia, italy, 2005

family.
his grandfather, also raimondo franchetti, married louise sarah rotschild into the rothschild banking family.






</doc>
<doc id="1469120" title="hey operator" nonfiltered="159" processed="158" dbindex="159">

the single "hey operator" by coney hatch was released in 1982 and contains the following tracks:

 track list .

hey operator;
devil's deck;






</doc>
<doc id="8267063" title="1807 in the united kingdom" nonfiltered="160" processed="159" dbindex="160">

events from the year 1807 in the united kingdom.

events.
 march - duke of portland asked to form a government following the collapse of the ministry of all the talents. ;
 march 25 - the slave trade act becomes law abolishing the slave trade in the british empire.
 march 25 - the swansea and mumbles railway, then known as the oystermouth railway, became the first passenger carrying railway in the world.
 may 4 june 9 - the duke of portland wins the general election.
 june 22 - chesapeake-leopard affair, royal navy warship hms leopard attacked and boarded the american frigate uss chesapeake.
 july 5 - disastrous attack on buenos aires.
 july 7-9 - peace of tilsit between france, prussia and russia. napoleon and russian emperor alexander i ally together against the british. ;
 july 13 - with the death of henry benedict stuart, the last stuart claimant to the throne, the movement of jacobitism comes to an effective end.
september 2   september 7 - battle of copenhagen: british navy bombards copenhagen with fire bombs and phosphorus rockets to prevent denmark from surrendering its fleet to napoleon. 30% of the city was destroyed and 2000 citizens were killed.
 december 22 - the u.s. congress passes the embargo act in response to the orders in council.

unknown dates.
 potassium and sodium isolated by sir humphry davy.
 geological society of london founded.

births.
 october 8 - harriet taylor english philosophical writer (died 1858);

deaths.
may 18 - john douglas, anglican bishop (b. 1721);
july 13 - henry benedict stuart, claimant to the throne of the united kingdom (b. 1725);
september 14 - george townshend, 1st marquess townshend, field marshal (b. 1724);
december 21 - john newton, cleric and hymnist (b. 1725);



</doc>
<doc id="6614914" title="archi language" nonfiltered="161" processed="160" dbindex="161">


archi is a caucasian language spoken by the 1,000 archis in the village of archi, southern dagestan, russia. it contrasts a voiceless velar lateral fricative with voiceless and ejective velar lateral affricates.
references.
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;






</doc>
<doc id="1589269" title="cusp neighborhood" nonfiltered="162" processed="161" dbindex="162">
in mathematics, a cusp neighborhood is defined as a set of points near a cusp.

cusp neighborhood for a riemann surface.
the cusp neighborhood for a hyperbolic riemann surface can be defined in terms of its fuchsian model.
 
suppose that the fuchsian group g contains a parabolic element g. for example, the element  where



is a parabolic element.  note that all parabolic elements of  are conjugate to this element. that is, if  is parabolic, then  for some . 

the set

;

where  is the upper half-plane has

;

for any 
where  is understood to mean the group generated by g.  that is,   acts properly discontinuously on u. because of this, it can be seen that the projection of u onto h/g is thus
.

here, e is called the neighborhood of the cusp corresponding to g. 

note that the hyperbolic area of e is exactly 1, when computed using the canonical poincar\e9 metric.  this is most easily seen by example: consider the intersection of u defined above with the fundamental domain 
;
of the modular group, as would be appropriate for the choice of t as the parabolic element.  when integrated over the volume element
;
the result is trivially 1.  areas of all cusp neighborhoods are equal to this, by the invariance of the area under conjugation. 




</doc>
<doc id="2690400" title="petit jean electric cooperative" nonfiltered="163" processed="162" dbindex="163">
 
petit jean electric cooperative is a non-profit rural electric utility cooperative headquartered in clinton, arkansas, with a district office in marshall, arkansas.

the cooperative was organized in october 1940, but due to world war ii never laid any new power lines.  instead, in september 1942 it would purchase the privately held clinton light and ice company, consisting of 780 accounts over 61 miles of power line (the former owner, clarence tingley, would later serve as superintendent of the cooperative).  the cooperative would relocate to clinton as a result of the purchase.  later, in october 1945 the cooperative would purchase 22.2 miles of line from arkansas power and light (a predecessor of entergy corporation), nearly tripling the size of the cooperative's territory, and in the 1950's extended to the marshall area by purchasing the service area power lines from carroll electric cooperative.

the cooperative serves a territory generally surrounding clinton and marshall.

the cooperative has more than 3,092 miles of distribution lines, and services 17,600 accounts.

external links.
petit jean electric cooperative;
index of pje member-initiated correspondence and response.;








</doc>
<doc id="33980" title="waterfall model" nonfiltered="164" processed="163" dbindex="164">

the waterfall model is a sequential software development model (a process for the creation of software) in which development is seen as flowing steadily downwards (like a waterfall) through the phases of requirements analysis, design, implementation, testing (validation), integration, and maintenance. the origin of the term "waterfall" is often cited to be an article published in 1970 by w. w. royce; ironically, royce himself  advocated an iterative approach to software development and did not even use the term "waterfall".  royce originally described what is now known as the waterfall model as an example of a method that he argued "is risky and invites failure".

history of the waterfall model.

in 1970 royce proposed what is now popularly referred to as the waterfall model as an initial concept, a model which he argued was flawed . his paper then explored how the initial model could be developed into an iterative model, with feedback from each phase influencing previous phases, similar to many methods used widely and highly regarded by many today. ironically, it is only the initial model that received notice; his own criticism of this initial model has been largely ignored.  the "waterfall model" quickly came to refer not to royce's final, iterative design, but rather to his purely sequentially ordered model.  this article will use this popular meaning of the phrase waterfall model.  for an iterative model similar to royce's final vision, see the spiral model.

despite royce's intentions for the waterfall model to be modified into an iterative model, use of the "waterfall model" as a purely sequential process is still popular, and, for some, the phrase "waterfall model" has since come to refer to any approach to software creation which is seen as inflexible and non-iterative.  those who use the phrase waterfall model pejoratively for non-iterative models that they dislike usually see the waterfall model itself as naive and unsuitable for a "real world" process.

usage of the waterfall model.



in royce's original waterfall model, the following phases are followed perfectly in order:

 requirements specification;
 design;
 construction (aka: implementation or coding);
 integration;
 testing and debugging (aka: verification);
 installation;
 maintenance;

to follow the waterfall model, one proceeds from one phase to the next in a purely sequential manner.  for example, one first completes "requirements specification"   they set in stone the requirements of the software.  (example requirements for wikipedia may be "wikipedia allows anonymous editing of articles; wikipedia enables people to search for information", although real requirements specifications will be much more complex and detailed.)  when and only when the requirements are fully completed, one proceeds to design.  the software in question is designed and a "blueprint" is drawn for implementers (coders) to follow   this design should be a plan for implementing the requirements given.  when and only when the design is fully completed, an implementation of that design is made by coders.  towards the later stages of this implementation phase, disparate software components produced by different teams are integrated.  (for example, one team may have been working on the "web page" component of wikipedia and another team may have been working on the "server" component of wikipedia.  these components must be integrated together to produce the whole system.)  after the implementation and integration phases are complete, the software product is tested and debugged; any faults introduced in earlier phases are removed here.  then the software product is installed, and later maintained to introduce new functionality and remove bugs.

thus the waterfall model maintains that one should move to a phase only when its preceding phase is completed and perfected.  phases of development in the waterfall model are thus discrete, and there is no jumping back and forth or overlap between them.

however, there are various modifed waterfall models (including royce's final model) that may include slight or major variations upon this process.

arguments for the waterfall model.

time spent early on in software production can lead to greater economy later on in the software lifecycle; that is, it has been shown many times that a bug found in the early stages of the production lifecycle (such as requirements specification or design) is more economical (cheaper in terms of money, effort and time) to fix than the same bug found later on in the process. (1996, p. 72, estimates that "a requirements defect that is left undetected until construction or maintenance will cost 50 to 200 times as much to fix as it would have cost to fix at requirements time.") this should be obvious to some people; if a program design is impossible to implement, it is easier to fix the design at the design stage than to realise months down the track when program components are being integrated that all the work done so far has to be scrapped because of a broken design.

this is the central idea behind big design up front (bduf) and the waterfall model - time spent early on making sure that requirements and design are absolutely correct is very useful in economic terms (it will save you much time and effort later).  thus, the thinking of those who follow the waterfall process goes, one should make sure that each phase is 100% complete and absolutely correct before proceeding to the next phase of program creation.  program requirements should be set in stone before design is started (otherwise work put into a design based on "incorrect" requirements is wasted); the programs design should be perfect before people begin work on implementing the design (otherwise they are implementing the "wrong" design and their work is wasted), etcetera.

a further argument for the waterfall model is that it places emphasis on documentation (such as requirements documents and design documents) as well as source code.  more "agile" methodologies can de-emphasise documentation in favour of producing working code - documentation however can be useful as a "partial deliverable" should a project not run far enough to produce any substantial amounts of source code (allowing the project to be resumed at a later date).  an argument against agile development methods, and thus partly in favour of the waterfall model, is that in agile methods project knowledge is stored mentally by team members.  should team members leave, this knowledge is lost, and substantial loss of project knowledge may be difficult for a project to recover from.  should a fully working design document be present (as is the intent of big design up front and the waterfall model) new team members or even entirely new teams should theoretically be able to bring themselves "up to speed" by reading the documents themselves. with that said, agile methods do attempt to compensate for this. for example, extreme programming (xp) advises that project team members should be "rotated" through sections of work in order to familiarise all members with all sections of the project (allowing individual members to leave without carrying important knowledge with them).

as well as the above, some prefer the waterfall model for its simple and arguably more disciplined approach.  rather than what the waterfall adherent sees as "chaos" the waterfall model provides a structured approach; the model itself progresses linearly through discrete, easily understandable and explainable "phases" and is thus easy to understand; it also provides easily markable "milestones" in the development process.  it is perhaps for this reason that the waterfall model is used as a beginning example of a development model in many software engineering texts and courses.

it is argued that the waterfall model and big design up front in general can be suited to software projects which are stable (especially those projects with unchanging requirements, such as with "shrink wrap" software) and where it is possible and likely that designers will be able to fully predict problem areas of the system and produce a correct design before implementation is started.  the waterfall model also requires that implementers follow the well made, complete design accurately, ensuring that the integration of the system proceeds smoothly.

the waterfall model is widely used, including by such large software development houses as those employed by the us department of defense and nasa (see "the waterfall model") and upon many large government projects (see "the standard waterfall model" on the internet archive). those who use such methods do not always formally distinguish between the "pure" waterfall model and the various modified waterfall models, so it can be difficult to discern exactly which models are being used to what extent.

steve mcconnell sees the two big advantages of the pure waterfall model as producing a "highly reliable system" and one with a "large growth envelope", but rates it as poor on all other fronts. on the other hand, he views any of several modified waterfall models (described below) as preserving these advantages while also rating as "fair to excellent" on "work with poorly understood requirements" or "poorly understood architecture" and "provid management with progress visibility", and rating as "fair" on "manag risks", being able to "be constrained to a predefined schedule", "allow for midcourse corrections", and "provid customer with progress visibility". the only criterion on which he rates a modified waterfall as poor is that it requires sophistication from management and developers. (rapid development, 156)

 criticism of the waterfall model .

the waterfall model however is argued by many to be a bad idea in practice, mainly because of their belief that it is impossible to get one phase of a software product's lifecycle "perfected" before moving on to the next phases and learning from them (or, at least, the belief that this is impossible for any non-trivial program).  for example, clients may not be aware of exactly what requirements they want before they see a working prototype and can comment upon it; they may change their requirements constantly, and program designers and implementers may have little control over this.  if clients change their requirements after a design is finished, that design must be modified to accommodate the new requirements, invalidating quite a good deal of effort if overly large amounts of time have been invested into "big design up front".  (thus, methods opposed to the naive waterfall model--such as those used in agile software development--advocate less reliance on a fixed, static requirements document or design document).  designers may not (or, more likely, cannot) be aware of future implementation difficulties when writing a design for an unimplemented software product.  that is, it may become clear in the implementation phase that a particular area of program functionality is extraordinarily difficult to implement.  if this is the case, it is better to revise the design than to persist in using a design that was made based on faulty predictions and that does not account for the newly discovered problem areas.

steve mcconnell in code complete (a book which criticizes the widespread use of the waterfall model) refers to design as a "wicked problem" - a problem whose requirements and limitations cannot be entirely known before completion.  the implication is that it is impossible to get one phase of software development "perfected" before time is spent in "reconnaissance" working out exactly where and what the big problems are.

to quote from david parnas' "a rational design process and how to fake it (pdf)":

 many of the  details only become known to us as we progress in the  implementation.  some of the things that we learn invalidate our design and we must backtrack. 

the idea behind the waterfall model may be "measure twice; cut once", and those opposed to the waterfall model argue that this idea tends to fall apart when the problem  being measured is constantly changing due to requirement modifications and new realizations about the problem itself.  the idea behind those who object to the waterfall model may be "time spent in reconnaissance is seldom wasted".

in summary, the criticisms of a non-iterative development approach (such as the waterfall model) are as follows:

 many software projects must be open to change due to external factors; the majority of software is written as part of a contract with a client, and clients are notorious for changing their stated requirements.  thus the software project must be adaptable, and spending considerable effort in design and implementation based on the idea that requirements will never change is neither adaptable nor realistic in these cases.
 unless those who specify requirements and those who design the software system in question are highly competent, it is difficult to know exactly what is needed in each phase of the software process before some time is spent in the phase "following" it.  that is, feedback from following phases is needed to complete "preceding" phases satisfactorily.  for example, the design phase may need feedback from the implementation phase to identify problem design areas.  the counter-argument for the waterfall model is that experienced designers may have worked on similar systems before, and so may be able to accurately predict problem areas without time spent prototyping and implementing.
 constant testing from the design, implementation and verification phases is required to validate the phases preceding them.  constant "prototype design" work is needed to ensure that requirements are non-contradictory and possible to fulfill; constant implementation is needed to find problem areas and inform the design process; constant integration and verification of the implemented code is necessary to ensure that implementation remains on track.  the counter-argument for the waterfall model here is that constant implementation and testing to validate the design and requirements is only needed if the introduction of bugs is likely to be a problem.  users of the waterfall model may argue that if designers (et cetera) follow a disciplined process and do not make mistakes that there is no need for constant work in subsequent phases to validate the preceding phases.
 frequent incremental builds (following the "release early, release often" philosophy) are often needed to build confidence for a software production team and their client.
 it is difficult to estimate time and cost for each phase of the development process without doing some "recon" work in that phase, unless those estimating time and cost are highly experienced with the type of software product in question.
 the waterfall model brings no formal means of exercising management control over a project and planning control and risk management are not covered within the model itself.
 only a certain number of team members will be qualified for each phase; thus to have "code monkeys" who are only useful for implementation work do nothing while designers "perfect" the design is a waste of resources.  a counter-argument to this is that "multiskilled" software engineers should be hired over "specialized" staff.

modified waterfall models.

in response to the perceived problems with the "pure" waterfall model, many modified waterfall models have been introduced.  these models may address some or all of the criticisms of the "pure" waterfall model.  many different models are covered by steve mcconnell in the "lifecycle planning" chapter of his book rapid development: taming wild software schedules.

while all software development models will bear at least some similarity to the waterfall model, as all software development models will incorporate at least some phases similar to those used within the waterfall model, this section will deal with those closest to the waterfall model.  for models which apply further differences to the waterfall model, or for radically different models seek general information on the software development process.

royce's final model.
royce's final model, his intended improvement upon his initial "waterfall model", illustrated that feedback could (should, and often would) lead from code testing to design (as testing of code uncovered flaws in the design) and from design back to requirements specification (as design problems may necessitate the removal of conflicting or otherwise unsatisfiable / undesignable requirements).  in the same paper royce also advocated large quantities of documentation, doing the job "twice if possible" (a sentiment similar to that of fred brooks, famous for writing the mythical man month, an influential book in software project management, who advocated planning to "throw one away"), and involving the customer as much as possible now the basis of participatory design and of user centred design, a central tenet of extreme programming.

the "sashimi" model.
the sashimi model (so called because it features overlapping phases, like the overlapping fish of japanese sashimi) was originated by peter degrace.  it is sometimes simply referred to as the "waterfall model with overlapping phases" or "the waterfall model with feedback".  since phases in the sashimi model overlap, information of problem spots can be acted upon during phases of the waterfall model that would typically "precede" others in the pure waterfall model.  for example, since the design and implementation phases will overlap in the sashimi model, implementation problems may be discovered during the "design and implementation" phase of the development process.  this helps alleviate many of the problems associated with the big design up front philosophy of the waterfall model.

other alternative models.

the "waterfall model with subprojects" and the "waterfall model with risk reduction" are two other modified versions of the waterfall model.
in some ways the spiral model is comparable to the waterfall model; a "waterfall model with iteration."

see also.
agile software development;
big design up front;
chaos model;
iterative and incremental development;
software development process;
spiral model;
system development methodology, a type of waterfall model;

references.

;
;
 ;
 parnas, david, a rational design process and how to fake it (pdf) an influential paper which criticises the idea that software production can occur in perfectly discrete phases.
 .
 joel spolsky on big design up front;
 joel spolsky - "daily builds are your friend";
 "why people still believe in the waterfall model";
the standard waterfall model for systems development nasa webpage, archived on internet archive march 10, 2005.
 parametric cost estimating handbook, nasa webpage based on the waterfall model, archived on internet archive march 8,2005.

external links.

 the pros and cons of the waterfall model of software development;
 further criticism of joels arguments for bduf and of bduf in general;
 (technical) discussion of the waterfall model on c2.com;
 "waterfall model considered harmful";
 project lifecycles: waterfall, rapid application development, and all that (a whitepaper on the waterfall model from the lux group (a software "design, development and documentation" company));
 the waterfall model at whatis.com;
 "the demise of the waterfall model is imminent" and other urban myths;
 project lifecycle models: how they differ and when to use them;
 conrad weisert, waterfall methodology: there's no such thing!;
 a spoof international waterfall conference;
 software processes (also the waterfall model);













</doc>
<doc id="17549" title="forever changes" nonfiltered="165" processed="164" dbindex="165">

forever changes (1967) is the third album released by the los angeles-based quintet love. 

history.
dropping keyboardist alban pfisterer and flautist/saxophonist tjay cantrelli, the remaining five-piece performed on nine of the album's eleven tracks. the album was the first to be produced by arthur lee, with assistance from bruce botnick.  

originally, the album was to be produced by botnick and neil young, but young bowed out due to his commitments to buffalo springfield.  however, according to the liner notes of the 1995 compliation "love story", young did stick with the album project long enough to arrange the track "the daily planet".

the sessions began in june 1967, with the group (except for lee and maclean) replaced by well-known los angeles session musicians billy strange (guitar), don randi (piano), hal blaine (drums) and, in most likelihood, carol kaye (bass). this studio line-up was put in place due to the regular line-up's alleged inability to function. the two tracks laid down, "andmoreagain" and "the daily planet", were later given sparing overdubs by the actual members of love, who felt the tracks otherwise sufficed.

botnick recalls that the use of session musicians "sparked" the band, and they "realized they had blown it, got their act together and recorded the rest of the album".  after much rehearsal, the group resumed work in august and continued through september, quickly laying down the remaining nine tracks, with a total estimated cost at $2,257. rooted in acoustics, the album's lyrics were a perfect summation of the year 1967, at times joyous, at times contemplative, at times downright devastating.

"when i did that album," commented arthur lee, "i thought i was going to die at that particular time, so those were my last words." this is borne out by perhaps the most famous lines from the album, on the song "the red telephone":   

"sitting on a hillside;
watching all the people die;
i'll feel much better on the other side." ;

a september recording session finished the album, sweetening the final mixes with horns and strings (arranged by david angel with each song's respective songwriter), as well as some additional piano from randi, who played all the keyboard parts on the album as the band now had no keyboard player. 

the album was released in november with cover art by bob pepper and disappeared, rising to a lowly #154 on the billboard charts. it did however reach the top 30 in britain.  only well after the group's break-up would the album be recognized as a masterpiece by the rock journalism press. it was re-released in an expanded version in 2001 on rhino records, featuring alternate mixes, outtakes and the group's 1968 single, "your mind and we belong together"/"laughing stock", the last tracks featuring johnny echols, ken forssi, michael stuart and, in most likelihood, bryan maclean. as for arthur lee, he would reform the group in late 1968 with all-new members and carry on the love name for a few more years.  

in 1998 q magazine readers voted forever changes the 82nd greatest album of all time. in joe s. harrington's top 100 albums it comes in at #69. rolling stone magazine ranked forever changes 40th in its list of the 500 greatest albums of all time in the december 11, 2003 issue. in a special issue of mojo magazine, it was ranked the second greatest psychedelic album of all time. forever changes was ranked 83rd in a 2005 survey held by british television's channel 4 to determine the 100 greatest albums of all time.

track listing.
november 1967 issue.
 "alone again or" (maclean,    3:16) ;
 "a house is not a motel" (lee,    3:31);
 "andmoreagain" (lee,    3:18);
 "the daily planet" (lee,    3:30);
 "old man" (maclean,    3:02);
 "the red telephone" (lee,    4:46);
 "maybe the people would be the times or between clark and hilldale" (lee,    3:34);
 "live and let live" (lee,    5:26);
 "the good humor man he sees everything like this" (lee,    3:08);
 "bummer in the summer" (lee,    2:24);
 "you set the scene" (lee,    6:56);

february 2001 reissue.
"alone again or" (maclean,    3:16);
"a house is not a motel" (lee,    3:31);
"andmoreagain" (lee/maclean,    3:18);
"the daily planet" (lee,    3:30);
"old man" (maclean,    3:02);
"the red telephone" (lee,    4:46);
"maybe the people would be the times or between clark and hilldale" (lee,    3:34);
"live and let live" (lee,    5:26);
"the good humor man he sees everything like this" (lee,    3:08);
"bummer in the summer" (lee,    2:24);
"you set the scene" (lee,    6:56);
hummingbirds (lee,    2:43);
wonder people (i do wonder) (lee,    3:27);
alone again or (alternate mix) (maclean,    2:55);
you set the scene (alternate mix) (lee,    7:01);
your mind and we belong together (tracking session highlights) (lee,    8:16) ;
your mind and we belong together (lee,    4:28);
laughing stock (lee,    2:33);

personnel.
music.

band members:;
arthur lee: lead vocals, guitar, arranger;
johnny echols: lead guitar;
bryan maclean: rhythm guitar, vocals, arranger (lead vocals on "alone again or" and "old man");
ken forssi: bass;
michael stuart: drums, percussion;

   
with:;
david angel: arranger, orchestrations;

   
and uncredited contributions from:;
hal blaine: drums on "andmoreagain" and "the daily planet";
carol kaye: bass on "andmoreagain" (unconfirmed);
don randi: all piano;
billy strange: guitar on "andmoreagain" and "the daily planet";
neil young: arranger on "the daily planet";
orchestra: robert barene, arnold belnick, james getzoff, marshall sosson, darrel terwilliger (violins); norman botnick (viola); jesse ehrlich (cello); chuck berghofer (double bass); bud brisbois, roy caton, ollie mitchell (trumpets); richard leith (trombone);

production & design.
bruce botnick and arthur lee: producers;
bruce botnick: engineer;
jac holzman: production supervisor;
zal schreiber: mastering;
william s. harvey: cover design;
bob pepper: cover art;









</doc>
<doc id="463448" title="ichinomiya, kumamoto" nonfiltered="166" processed="165" dbindex="166">

ichinomiya (    ; -machi) was a town located in aso district, kumamoto, japan.  on february 11, 2005, the town merged with another town and a village from the district forming the city of aso and no longer exists as an independent municipality.

ichinomiya literally means "the first shrine" of the province. in case of this town, it referred to the aso shrine of the higo province.

as of 2003, the town had an estimated population of 9,977 and a density of 94.54 persons per km\b2. the total area was 105.53 km\b2.



external links.
official website of aso ;





</doc>
<doc id="6715432" title="ripalta cremasca" nonfiltered="167" processed="166" dbindex="167">

ripalta cremasca is a comune (municipality) in the province of cremona in the italian region lombardy, located about 45 km southeast of milan and about 35 km northwest of cremona. as of 31 december 2004, it had a population of 3,252 and an area of 11.8 km2.

ripalta cremasca borders the following municipalities: capergnanica, credera rubbiano, crema, madignano, moscazzano, ripalta arpina, ripalta guerina.


 demographic evolution .

colors=
  id:lightgrey value:gray(0.9)
  id:darkgrey  value:gray(0.8)
  id:sfondo value:rgb(1,1,1)
  id:barra value:rgb(0.6,0.7,0.8)

imagesize  = width:455 height:303
plotarea   = left:50 bottom:50 top:30 right:30
dateformat = x.y
period     = from:0 till:4000
timeaxis   = orientation:vertical
alignbars  = justify
scalemajor = gridcolor:darkgrey increment:1000 start:0
scaleminor = gridcolor:lightgrey increment:200 start:0
backgroundcolors = canvas:sfondo

bardata=
  bar:1861 text:1861
  bar:1871 text:1871
  bar:1881 text:1881
  bar:1901 text:1901
  bar:1911 text:1911
  bar:1921 text:1921
  bar:1931 text:1931
  bar:1936 text:1936
  bar:1951 text:1951
  bar:1961 text:1961
  bar:1971 text:1971
  bar:1981 text:1981
  bar:1991 text:1991
  bar:2001 text:2001

plotdata=
  color:barra width:20 align:left

  bar:1861 from: 0 till:1981
  bar:1871 from: 0 till:2110
  bar:1881 from: 0 till:2200
  bar:1901 from: 0 till:2192
  bar:1911 from: 0 till:2351
  bar:1921 from: 0 till:2425
  bar:1931 from: 0 till:2510
  bar:1936 from: 0 till:2536
  bar:1951 from: 0 till:2718
  bar:1961 from: 0 till:2406
  bar:1971 from: 0 till:2514
  bar:1981 from: 0 till:2647
  bar:1991 from: 0 till:2917
  bar:2001 from: 0 till:3062

plotdata=

  bar:1861 at:1981 fontsize:xs text: 1981 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1871 at:2110 fontsize:xs text: 2110 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1881 at:2200 fontsize:xs text: 2200 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1901 at:2192 fontsize:xs text: 2192 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1911 at:2351 fontsize:xs text: 2351 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1921 at:2425 fontsize:xs text: 2425 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1931 at:2510 fontsize:xs text: 2510 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1936 at:2536 fontsize:xs text: 2536 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1951 at:2718 fontsize:xs text: 2718 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1961 at:2406 fontsize:xs text: 2406 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1971 at:2514 fontsize:xs text: 2514 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1981 at:2647 fontsize:xs text: 2647 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1991 at:2917 fontsize:xs text: 2917 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:2001 at:3062 fontsize:xs text: 3062 shift:(-8,5)

textdata=
  fontsize:s pos:(20,20)
  text:data from istat



references.















</doc>
<doc id="1364160" title="a?r? province" nonfiltered="168" processed="167" dbindex="168">
for mount a r  (a r  da  ), see mount ararat.;
for the capital of the province, see a r .;


a r  (armenian:        ; kurdish: agir\ee ) is a province on the eastern borders of turkey, bordering iran to the east, kars to the north, erzurum to the northeast, mu  and bitlis to the southeast, van to the south, and i d r to the northeast. area 11,376 km\b2. population 437,093 (1990). 

the provincial capital is a r , situated on a 1,650 m. high plateau.

etymology.
see mount ararat (a r  da  ).

in the ottoman empire era the area was called  orbulak, and karakilise (black church) which was then mutated to karak\f6se (the black man with no moustache!!!) towards the end of the ottoman period. 

districts.
a r  province is divided into 8 districts (capital district in bold):
a r ;
diyadin;
do ubeyaz t;
ele kirt;
hamur;
patnos;
ta l \e7ay;
tutak;


geography.
a r  is named after the nearby majestic mount ararat, a 5,165 m. high stratovolcano, the highest mountain in turkey. it can be climbed from here and can be seen from parts of armenia, iran, georgia, and azerbaijan. the nearest town to the mountain is do ubeyaz t.

46% of the province is mountain, 29% is plain, 18% is plateau, and 7% high meadow. as well as ararat there are many other peaks over 3,000m, including alada lar and tend\fcrek. the plains are fertile, being covered in volcanic deposits, and are used for growing grains and grazing. various tributaries of the murat river (which later feeds the euphrates) flow through the area and water these plains. the high meadows are used for grazing. 

the weather here is very, very cold (temperatures as low as -45c in winter) and the mountainsides are mainly bare. there are a number of important passes and routes through the mountains. 

history.
the plateau of a r  was historically controlled by the kingdom of urartu until its transition to the orontid dynasty of the kingdom of armenia.  the area was coveted by many foreign invaders as a gateway between east and west.  it was conquered numerous times by assyrians, greeks, romans, byzantines, arabs, mongols, persians, and finally by the seljuq and ottoman turks.

the first turkish presence in the region was the brief occupation of the do ubeyaz t area by the saka in 680. the first muslims in the area were the abbasids in 872. the turkish hordes began to pass through in huge numbers following the defeat of the byzantine armies at malazgirt in 1071, sometimes pursued by mongols. the land was brought into the ottoman empire by sultan selim ii following the battle of chaldiran.

under ottoman rule, the area that is now the a r  province mostly consisted of indigenous armenians and kurds.  the former lived fairly well until the hamidian massacres and the armenian genocide.  those armenians who managed to escape liquidation fled north to russian armenia.

since the establishment of the modern turkish republic, the area became unstable again with numerous kurdish uprisings (one even leading to the temporary establishment of a kurdish state, the republic of ararat).

recent events.
on august 19, 2006, a turkish-iranian natural gas pipeline exploded in the province.  turkish authorities suspect separatist pkk was behind the incident. 

a r  today.
people live by grazing animals and a r  also attracts tourists to the mountain, for climbing and trekking in summers, and skiing in winters; and also some are keen to see places of interest such as: 
ishak pasha palace and the second-largest meteor crater in the world, in do ubeyaz t;
aznavur tepe in patnos;
the tomb of ahmedi hani in diyadin.




 external links .

 the provincial governorate;
  a r  weather forecast information;
















</doc>
<doc id="2204223" title="avobenzone" nonfiltered="169" processed="168" dbindex="169">


avobenzone (trade names parsol\ae 1789, eusolex\ae 9020, escalol\ae 517 and others, inci butyl methoxydibenzoylmethane) is an oil soluble ingredient used in sunscreen products to absorb both uva and uvb rays.  its ability to absorb ultraviolet light over a wider range of wavelengths than many organic sunscreen agents has led to its use in many commercial preparations marketed as "broad spectrum" sunscreens. according to doctors, "the most effective sunscreens contain avobenzone and titanium dioxide."  

avobenzone has been shown to degrade significantly in light,    resulting in less protection over time. this degradation can be reduced by using a photostabilizer, like octocrylene. other photostabilizers include:

 4-methylbenzylidene camphor (usan enzacamene);
 tinosorb\ae s (usan bemotrizinol, inci bis-ethylhexyloxyphenol methoxyphenyl triazine);
 tinosorb\ae m (usan bisoctrizole, inci methylene bis-benzotriazolyl tetramethylbutylphenol);
 butyloctyl salicylate;
 hexadecyl benzoate;
 butyloctyl benzoate;
 mexoryl\ae sx (usan ecamsule, inci terephthalylidene dicamphor sulfonic acid)  ;
 diethylhexyl 2,6-naphthalate;
 parsol\ae slx (inci polysilicone-15);

avobenzone shows to degrade faster in light in combination with mineral uv absorbers like zinc oxide and titanium dioxide. the fda prohibits this combination. with the right coating of the mineral particles this reaction can be reduced. avobenzone reacts with minerals to form colored complexes. manufacturers of avobenzone, like dsm recommend to include a chelator to prevent this from happening. they also recommend to avoid the inclusion of iron and ferric salts, heavy metals, formaldehyde donors and paba and paba esters. 

the makers of coppertone advise that avobenzone binds iron and can cause staining of clothes washed in iron-rich water.

see also.
 tinosorb ;
 mexoryl;
 spf ;
 titanium dioxide;
 zinc oxide;

notes.




external links.
 discussion of parsol 1789 properties;




</doc>
<doc id="1243627" title="sean conway" nonfiltered="170" processed="169" dbindex="170">
sean conway (born july 24, 1951 in pembroke, ontario) was a long-serving politician in ontario, canada.  he was a liberal member of the legislative assembly of ontario from 1975 to 2003, and was a high-profile cabinet minister in the government of david peterson.

conway attended st. joseph's separate school, madawaska valley district high school, and completed his education at waterloo lutheran university (now wilfrid laurier university) and queen's university.  

in the provincial election of 1975, at age twenty-four, conway was elected as a liberal member of provincial parliament (mpp) for the eastern ontario riding of renfrew north. his grandfather, thomas patrick murray, had represented renfrew south for the liberals from 1929 to 1945.  he defeated progressive conservative candidate bob cotnam by 183 votes.  the progressive conservatives won a minority government in the election, and conway sat with his party in the opposition benches.

the liberals increased their parliamentary representation in the 1977 election, although not by enough to form government; conway was re-elected over cotnam by an increased margin.  he became his party's official critic for health following the election, and served in this capacity for the entirety of the four-year minority parliament which followed.

the progressive conservatives won a majority government in the 1981 provincial election, although conway was popular enough in his own riding to be re-elected by about 2,000 votes.  on march 9, 1982, he was chosen as deputy leader of liberal party by david peterson, who had defeated sheila copps in a leadership convention the previous month.

the provincial election of 1985 resulted in a hung parliament, with the progressive conservatives having only four more seats than the liberals and the new democratic party holding the balance of power with twenty-five seats.  conway, by this time regarded as being on the progressive wing of his party, was involved in the liberal party's post-election negotiations with the ndp.  in this capacity, he helped bring about a written pact in which the ndp offered support to the liberals for two years in return for certain progressive legislative initiatives.  on june 26, 1985 was named as the province's minister of education.

conway's most controversial responsibility as education minister was managing the government's legislation for full funding to ontario's roman catholic separate schools.  conway's grandfather, thomas murray, had championed a similar initiative in the 1930s, and was disappointed when mitchell hepburn backed away from a previous commitment in the face of protestant opposition.  conway had supported the announcement of full funding by bill davis's progressive conservative government prior to the 1985 election, and was responsible for significantly increasing the actual revenues to the catholic system after a mathematical error in the davis government's funding formula came to light.  he also guaranteed hiring rights for non-catholics within the system, and exempted non-catholic children from compulsory religious education in separate high schools.  

for conway, the issue of separate-school funding was a question of righting an historical wrong; others, however, regarded government funding of catholic education as a threat to the public school system.  the larger issue of denominational school funding remains extremely controversial in the province.

on june 17, 1986, conway was also named acting ontario minister of government services, a position which he held until the dissolution of parliament in 1987.  he was re-elected by a landslide in the 1987 provincial election, in which the liberals won 95 of 130 seats.  on september 29, 1987, he was named government house leader and minister of mines.  following a cabinet shuffle on august 2, 1989, he was again named minister of education, and also held the portfolios of minister of skills development and colleges and universities.

like many others in the peterson government, conway opposed holding an early election in 1990 (in fact, he would later reveal that sentiment in the party caucus was almost uniformly against an early trip to the polls).  nonetheless, peterson called a snap provincial election in 1990, and his party was resoundingly defeated by the ndp.  conway himself was re-elected in a landslide in renfrew north, where the ndp has a very limited base of historical support.  on september 17, 1991, he was chosen as deputy leader of the official opposition. conway did not contest the liberal leadership in 1992.

the progressive conservatives under mike harris returned to government in the 1995 provincial election with a large majority. despite the tories' sweep of much of the province, conway's personal popularity allowed him a fairly easily re-election in renfrew north.

conway was the early frontrunner to succeed lyn mcleod as party leader in 1996, and surprised many by choosing not to run. conway instead supporting dwight duncan, who finished fourth.  he continued to serve as deputy opposition leader until december 19, 1996, when new party leader dalton mcguinty replaced him with joseph cordiano.  in the 1999 election, he defeated an incumbent mpp, tory leo jordan, in the redistributed riding of renfrew--nipissing--pembroke.  with the retirement of bud wildman in 1999, conway became the longest-serving member of the legislature.  

having spent more than half his life as an mpp, conway decided to retire before the 2003 provincial election.  he is currently a member of tv ontario's political discussion panel, a public policy advisor with gowlings professionals, and a visiting fellow at the queen's university school of policy studies.








</doc>
<doc id="1273043" title="american tune" nonfiltered="171" processed="170" dbindex="171">
"american tune" is a song written and first performed by paul simon. the song first appeared on simon's second solo album following the breakup of simon and garfunkel, there goes rhymin' simon (1973). it was also released as a single, columbia 45900, backed with "one man's ceiling is another man's floor," which simon released on the same album.

lyrically, the song at the surface is an evocation of weariness and confusion, as the narrator describes being far from home and "wonder what's gone wrong." metaphorically, the song may be addressing the perceived decline of american society as the lyrics include a dream image of the statue of liberty "sailing away to sea" and rueful mentions of the mayflower and the apollo program, before concluding "it's all right/you can't be forever blessed/still tomorrow's going to be another working day/and i'm trying to get some rest."

musically, the song is notable for being based on a melody line from johann sebastian bach's chorale from "st. matthew passion," itself a reworking of an earlier secular song, "mein gm\fcth ist mir verwirret," composed by hans hassler.

eventually it became a concert favorite, both for simon and in reunion concerts with simon's former singing partner art garfunkel (who has stated in concert that he wished that he and simon had recorded this song before they split in 1970). the duo has claimed that had they not split, the song would have become another massive hit, similar to what "bridge over troubled water" had been. the song appears on several of simon's solo live albums and on simon and garfunkel's post-breakup live albums, as well as many simon compilation albums. the song has also been covered by many artists, notably willie nelson and eva cassidy.

the song was also featured on at least one episode of the nbc television series providence.





</doc>
<doc id="2681709" title="alpha2 canum venaticorum variable" nonfiltered="172" processed="171" dbindex="172">

alpha\b2 canum venaticorum variables are main sequence variable stars of spectral class b8p to a7p.  they display strong magnetic fields and have strong silicon, strontium, and chromium spectral lines.  their brightness typically varies by 0.01 to 0.1 magnitudes over the course of 0.5 to 160 days.

the prototype, and most well known of these variables is cor caroli (  cvn) which has fluctuations in brightness of 0.1 magnitudes with a period of 5.47 days.

references.
samus n.n., durlevich o.v., et al. combined general catalog of variable stars (gcvs4.2, 2004 ed.)









</doc>
<doc id="3143183" title="farris, oklahoma" nonfiltered="173" processed="172" dbindex="173">
farris is a small community in atoka county, oklahoma. it lies east of the county seat of atoka on highway 3 near the border of the county. there is a small, k-8 grade school at farris, but those students who are above the eighth grade attend atoka high school in atoka, some twenty miles away from the town. the post office was established may 17, 1902. it was named for the first postmaster, john l. farris.

external links.







</doc>
<doc id="8931454" title="theodore case" nonfiltered="174" processed="173" dbindex="174">
theodore willard case (1888 auburn, new york   1944) began working on his sound-on-film process in 1916. from 1922 to 1924, case joined forces with lee de forest, working to integrate his system with de forest's phonofilm sound-on-film process, which had been patented by deforest in 1919. 

on 15 april 1923, deforest presented 18 short films made in the phonofilm process at the rivoli theater in new york city. the printed program for this presentation gives credit to the "deforest-case patents". however, case and deforest had a falling out, shortly after deforest filed a lawsuit against freeman harrison owens, another inventor who had worked with deforest on sound-on-film systems. 

from 1926 to 1927, case worked with earl i. sponable and movie mogul william fox to develop the fox movietone process. fox had previously purchased the rights to the sound film patents of owens -- who had developed a sound movie camera as early as 1921 and coined the term "movietone" -- and the u.s. rights to the german tri-ergon sound-on-film process.

titles filmed by case in his process, all made at the case studios in auburn, new york, include miss manila martin and her pet squirrel (1921), gus visser and his singing duck (1925), bird in a cage (1923), gallagher and shean (1925), madame fifi (1925), and chinese variety performer with a ukelele (1925).

see also.
sound film;
joseph tykoci ski-tykociner;
rca photophone;
movietone sound system;

external link.
list of early sound films including case-sponable films;
theodore case labs historic site in auburn, new york;





</doc>
<doc id="9289716" title="email to the universe" nonfiltered="175" processed="174" dbindex="175">
and other alterations of consciousness.
wilson, robert anton
isbn10:  1561841943
isbn13:  9781561841945


=product description=
the range of robert anton wilson's expertise is always astonishing. in email to the universe he tackles a dazzling array of subjects including: the passion of the antichrist; the celtic roots of quantum theory; paranoia; black magick & curses; lsd, dogs & me; left and right: a non-euclidean perspective; sexual alchemy; cheerful reflections on death and dying; the relativity of "reality" and a whole bunch more. bob's description of his campaign to become governor of california (as the candidate of the guns & dope party, no less) will have you rolling on the floor. 

=about the author=
robert anton wilson is the coauthor (with the late robert shea), of the underground classic the illuminatus! trilogy which won the 1986 prometheus hall of fame award. his other writings include schrodinger's cat trilogy, called "the most scientific of all science fiction novels" by new scientist, and many nonfiction works of futurist psychology and guerilla ontology. wilson, who sees himself as a futurist, author, and stand-up comic, regularly gives seminars at esalan and other new age centers. wilson has made both a comedy record (secrets of power), and a punk rock record (the chocolate biscuit conspiracy), and his play, wilhelm reich in hell, has been performed throughout the world. his novel illuminatus! was adapted as a 10-hour science fiction rock epic and performed under the patronage of her majesty queen elizabeth ii at great britain's national theatre, where wilson appeared in a special cameo role. he is also a former editor at playboy magazine.





</doc>
<doc id="2930023" title="rahachow" nonfiltered="176" processed="175" dbindex="176">

raha o  (; ) is a town in the homiel province of belarus.  it is center of raha o  district. raha o  is located at , between the dru  and dnieper rivers.  the population is 34,727 (2004 estimate).

the artist anatoli lvovich kaplan was born (1902) and brought up here, as was cold war-era soviet spy in canada igor gouzenko.

 external links .

photos on radzima.org;












</doc>
<doc id="7725412" title="reboost" nonfiltered="177" processed="176" dbindex="177">
the process of boosting the altitude of an artificial satellite, to increase the time until its orbit will decay and it re-enters the atmosphere. for example, the international space station is given a reboost by the space shuttle every time it visits, because it is in a low-earth orbit which experiences significant atmospheric drag.



</doc>
<doc id="2591494" title="list of mountains of new zealand by height" nonfiltered="178" processed="177" dbindex="178">
the following is a list of the highest mountains in new zealand, and also of some other prominent mountains and hills, ordered by height.



the 30 highest mountains.
the 30 highest mountains are all within the southern alps, a chain that forms the backbone of the south island.

aoraki/mount cook - 3754 m (12,316 ft);
mount tasman - 3498 m (11,476 ft);
mount dampier - 3440 m (11,286 ft);
mount silberhorn - 3279 m (10,758 ft);
mount lendenfeld - 3201 m (10,502 ft);
mount hicks - 3183 m (10,443 ft);
mount malte-brun - 3176 m (10,420 ft);
mount torres - 3163 m (10,377 ft);
mount teichelmann - 3160 m (10,367 ft);
mount sefton - 3157 m (10,358 ft);
mount haast - 3138 m (10,295 ft);
mount elie de beaumont - 3109 m (10,200 ft);
mount douglas peak - 3081 m (10,108 ft);
mount la perouse - 3079 m (10,102 ft);
mount haidinger - 3066 m (10, 059 ft);
the minarets - 3065 m (10,056 ft);
mount aspiring - 3033 m (9951 ft);
mount hamilton - 3022 m (9915 ft);
glacier peak - 3007 m (9865 ft);
mount de la beche - 2992 m (9816 ft);
aiguilles rouges - 2966 m (9731 ft);
mount nazomi - 2962 m (9718 ft);
mount darwin - 2961 m (9715 ft);
mount chudliegh - 2952 m (9685 ft);
mount annan, new zealand - 2947 m (9669 ft);
mount low - 2942 m (9652 ft);
mount haeckel - 2941 m (9649 ft);
mount goldsmith - 2905 m (9531 ft);
conway peak - 2901 m (9518 ft);
bristol top - 2898 m (9508 ft);

other prominent mountains and hills.

over 2000 metres.
tapuae-o-uenuku - 2880 m (9449 ft) (highest peak outside the southern alps);
hochstetter dome - 2822 m (9259 ft);
mount earnslaw - 2819 m (9249 ft);
tahurangi, ruapehu - 2797 m (9177 ft) (highest peak in the north island);
mount tutoko - 2756 m (9042 ft);
te heuheu, ruapehu - 2755 m (9039 ft);
paretetaitonga, ruapehu - 2751 m (9026 ft);
mount hopkins - 2682 m (8799 ft);
mount taranaki or mount egmont - 2518 m (8261 ft);
mount murchison - 2408m;
double cone - 2340 m (7677 ft);
ben nevis - 2330 m (7644 ft);
mount ngauruhoe - 2291 m (7516 ft);
mount rolleston - 2275 m (7464 ft);
mount adams - 2208m (7244 ft);
mount hutt - 2190 m (7185 ft);

1000 to 2000 metres.
mount tongariro - 1978 m (6490 ft);
benmore peak - 1932 m (6338 ft) (site of benmore peak observatory);
mount cardrona - 1900 m (6234 ft);
mount owen - 1875 m (6152 ft);
sutherlands peak - 1846 m (6054 ft);
totara peak - 1822 m (5977 ft);
mount arthur - 1795 m (5887 ft);
mount hikurangi, gisborne - 1754 m (5755 ft);
mount mangaweka - 1730 m (5676 ft);
mount kaweka - 1725 m (5659 ft);
mitre peak - 1692 m (5551 ft);
the mitre (tararua ranges) - 1570 m (5151 ft);
mount hector (tararua ranges) - 1529 m (5016 ft);
sturge island (subantarctic island) - 1524 m (5000 ft);
mount lyndon - 1489m (4885 ft);
the cairn - 1464 m (4801 ft) ;
summit peak - 1450 m (4756 ft) (highest point of the rock and pillar range);
young island (subantarctic island) - 1340 m (4396 ft);
the buscot - 1245 m (4084 ft);
buckle island (subantarctic island) - 1239 m (4065 ft);
mount pureora - 1175 m (3855 ft);
mount tarawera - 1111 m (3645 ft);
mount tauhara - 1088 m (3570 ft);
mount john - 1031 m (3382 ft) (site of mount john university observatory);

under 1000 metres.
mount ross - 983 m (3225 ft) (highest point in the aorangi range);
mount anglem - 979 m (3212 ft) (highest peak on stewart island);
mount pirongia - 962 m (3156 ft);
mount te aroha - 952 m (3123 ft) (highest point in the kaimai ranges);
mount matthews - 940 m (3084 ft);
mount herbert (te ahu patiki) - 920m (3018 ft) (highest point on banks peninsula);
maungatua - 900 m (2953 ft);
moehau - 892 m (2927 ft) (highest point on the coromandel peninsula);
mount edgecumbe - 820 m (2690 ft);
maungatautari - 797 m (2615 ft) (site of the maungatautari restoration project);
takaka hill - 760 m (2493 ft);
mount karioi - 756 m (2480 ft) (overlooks raglan);
hauturu/little barrier island - 722 m (2370 ft);
mount pye - 720 m (2361 ft) (highest point in the catlins);
mount cargill - 680 m (2231 ft);
kohukokonui (highest point in the hunua ranges) - 650 m (2133 ft);
mount hikurangi, northland - 625 m (2051 ft);
hokonui hills - 600 m (1969 ft);
mount honey (campbell island) - 558 m (1831 ft);
moumoukai -  516 m (1693 ft) (highest point in the kermadec islands, on raoul island);
te toiokawharu (highest point in the waitakere ranges) - 474 m (1555 ft);
mount kaukau - 445 m (1460 ft);
mount charles - 408 m (1337 ft) (highest point on the otago peninsula);
signal hill - 393 m (1289 ft);
whakaari/white island - 321 m (1053 ft);
taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu - 305 m (1001 ft);
mangere - 286 m (938 ft) (highest point in the chatham islands, on mangere island);
rangitoto island - 260 m (853 ft);
mauao (mount maunganui) - 230 m (755 ft);
mount victoria, wellington - 196 m (643 ft);
mount eden - 196 m (643 ft);
one tree hill - 182 m (597 ft);
mount wellington - 137 m (449 ft);
mount albert - 135 m (443 ft);
mount roskill - 110 m (361 ft);
mangere mountain - 107 m (351 ft);




</doc>
<doc id="3410455" title="voodoo blue" nonfiltered="179" processed="178" dbindex="179">
voodoo blue is a rock/alternative band from baltimore, maryland, featuring dan book on vocals and guitar, clunky on bass and vocals, and justin posner on the drums.  the band was formed in the late 1990s. their latest album, smile 'n' nod, was released under the independent record label dcide on march 7, 2006.



 discography .
 watch the world fall down (2001);
 the summer sessions (2002);
 use as directed (2003);
 lo  (2004);
 smile 'n' nod (2006);

 external links . 
 voodoo blue's official web site;






</doc>
<doc id="8640592" title="school of the arts (rochester, new york)" nonfiltered="180" processed="179" dbindex="180">

school of the arts
45 prince street, 14607
phone: (585) 242-7682 

principal:
brenda pacheco-rivera
rochester city school district 
http://www.rcsdk12.org/index.htm

school of the arts...

- is located on the corner of prince street and university avenue, within walking distance of the memorial art gallery, eastman theatre, writers & books, visual studies workshop, and other cultural organizations.

- has both a middle school program (grades 7-8) and a high school program (grades 9-12).

- requires students to carry a full academic course load as well as a fine arts sequence. 

- offers a rich diversity of arts courses within seven major fine arts concentrations: 


- vocal music 
- instrumental music 
- dance 
- drama 
- visual arts 
- theatre technology 
- creative writing 
- provides opportunities for students to participate in performances and exhibitions in their field of study.

- requires additional time commitments involving an extended day.

- demands achievement in the high school program in three areas: academics, arts, and humanistic concerns.

- offers students the opportunity to earn the certificate of employability, which is endorsed by employers throughout rochester who consider it when making hiring decisions.

-averages 92% attendance.

- has more than 90% of its graduates go on to colleges and universities including harvard, smith, cornell, yale, university of rochester, rit, potsdam, brockport, and nyu


</doc>
<doc id="726926" title="black-billed whistling duck" nonfiltered="181" processed="180" dbindex="181">


the black-billed whistling duck, dendrocygna arborea, is a whistling duck which breeds in the west indies. alternative names are west indian whistling duck and cuban whistling duck.

the black-billed whistling duck is widely scattered throughout the west indies including a large breeding population in the bahamas, and smaller numbers in cuba, the cayman islands, antigua and barbuda, and jamaica. it is largely sedentary, apart from local movements which can be 100 km or more. nests have been reported in tree cavities, on branches, in clumps of bromeliads, and on the ground under thatch palms and other dense bushes. the usual clutch size is 10-16 eggs. it habitually perches in trees, which gives rise to its specific name. 

the birds are mostly nocturnal and secretive, inhabiting wooded swamps and mangroves, where this duck roosts and feeds on plant food including the fruit of the royal palm.

the black-billed whistling duck is the largest (48-58 cm) and darkest of its genus. it has a long black bill, long head and longish legs. it has a pale foreneck and light brown face. the crown, back, breast and wings are dark brown to black, and the rest of the underparts are white with heavy black markings.

all plumages are similar, except that juveniles are duller and have a less contrasted belly pattern.

 threats .
the black-billed whistling duck has suffered extensive hunting for its eggs and for sport. wetlands are a very limited habitat in the caribbean, with continuing conversion for development and agriculture. more than 50% of remaining wetlands are seriously degraded by the cutting of mangroves and swamp-forest, pollution (especially over-use of pesticides1) and natural catastrophes such as droughts and hurricanes. predation is inadequately documented but may be a factor.

 current conservation measures .
cites appendix ii. cms appendix ii. it is legally protected throughout much of its range, but law enforcement is inadequate.  n. l. staus (1997)  the west indian whistling duck working group initiated a conservation programme in 1997. l. g. sorenson (1997) there are several protected areas in the region but, in general, suitable habitat, especially wetlands, is under-represented. n. l. staus (1997)

 proposed conservation measures .
conduct extensive surveys to assess numbers and distribution; assist local authorities in establishing a long-term monitoring programme; conserve key sites; enforce legal protection; initiate public education and awareness programmes. staus (1997)



 references .
  database entry includes a range map and justification for why this species is vulnerable;
 wildfowl by madge and burn, isbn 0-7470-2201-1;
 staus, n.l. 1998. behavior and natural history of the west indian whistling duck on long island, bahamas. wildfowl 49: 194-206.

external link.
arkive - images and movies of the west indian whistling-duck (dendrocygna arborea);







</doc>
<doc id="64673" title="bruce willis" nonfiltered="182" processed="181" dbindex="182">

bruce willis (born walter bruce willis on march 19, 1955) is an american actor and singer. he came to fame in the late 1980s and has since retained a career as both a hollywood leading man and a supporting actor.

biography.
early life.
willis was born in idar-oberstein, west germany to an american father, david willis, and a kassel-born german mother, marlene, who worked in a bank. after being discharged from the military in 1957, willis's father took his family back to penns grove, new jersey, and he worked as a welder and factory worker. willis was the oldest of four children. he was always an outgoing youngster, although he grew up with a stutter. finding it easy to express himself on stage, willis began performing on stage and his high school memberships were marked by such things as the drama club and school council president.

rather than go to college after graduation, willis farmed sheep in a mining village in alabama, transporting work crews at the dupont chambers works factory in deepwater, new jersey. he decided to quit after a colleague was killed on the job, and thereafter became a regular at several bars. willis also discovered an innate knack for playing harmonica, and did so for an r&b group, loose goose. after a stint as a bodyguard (which he actually plays in his 1991 movie, the last boy scout), willis returned to his original passion of acting. he enrolled in the drama program at montclair state college, where he was cast as brick in the class production of cat on a hot tin roof with jack prince as big daddy, william applegate as the doctor and kevin j. lynch as the rev. tooker. the ambitious junior finally decided to leave school in pursuit of more lucrative movie roles by heading for new york city. 

willis returned to the bar scene, only this time for a part-time job and as a way to meet new york celebrities. he is rumored to have been 'discovered' while working at the museum cafe on new york's upper west side. after countless auditions, willis finally made his theater debut in the off-broadway production of heaven and earth. he gained more experience and exposure in fool for love, a stint on television's miami vice, and a levi's campaign.

career.
willis first found fame with his starring role in the hit tv series moonlighting (1985 89) establishing himself as a comedic actor. however, it was his then-unexpected turn in the die hard series that catapulted him to fame. he also was successful in his turn as the voice of little mikey in the look who's talking series.

in the late-1980s, willis enjoyed moderate success as a recording artist, recording an album of pop-blues entitled the return of bruno, which included the hit single "respect yourself", promoted by a spinal tap-like rockumentary parody featuring scenes of him performing at famous events including woodstock.  follow-up recordings were not as successful, though willis does return to the recording studio from time to time.

in the early 1990s, willis' career suffered a moderate slump starring in flops such as the bonfire of the vanities and hudson hawk, among others. however, in 1994 he had a supporting role in quentin tarantino's acclaimed pulp fiction, which gave a new boost to his career. in 1996, he produced the cartoon bruno the kid which featured a cgi representation of himself. he went on to play the lead roles in twelve monkeys and the fifth element. however, by the end of the '90s, his career had fallen into another slump with critically panned films like the jackal, mercury rising and breakfast of champions, saved only by the success of the michael bay-directed armageddon which was the highest grossing film of 1998 in the us.

in 1999, willis achieved what could be considered the biggest success of his career with his starring role in m. night shyamalan's film, the sixth sense. the film was both a commercial and critical success and launched willis' career to a new level of stardom.
he once had to appear in the hit sitcom friends without pay, because he lost a bet to matthew perry, his co-star in the whole nine yards and its sequel the whole ten yards. he won a 2000 emmy for outstanding guest actor in a comedy series for his work on friends (in which he played the father of ross geller's much-younger girlfriend). he was also nominated for a 2001 american comedy award (in the funniest male guest appearance in a tv series category) for his work on friends. willis was originally cast as terry benedict in ocean's eleven (2001) but dropped out. in ocean's twelve (2003), he makes a cameo appearance as himself.

willis also appeared on japanese subaru legacy television commercials, optimising the car for sale, with the backing music of jade from sweetbox, "addicted" and "hate without frontiers". tying in with this, subaru did a limited run of legacys, badged "subaru legacy touring bruce", in honor of willis.

willis has appeared in four movies with samuel l. jackson (unbreakable, pulp fiction, die hard with a vengeance, and national lampoon's loaded weapon 1). he is also currently working on the film black water transit alongside jackson due in 2007.

he has finished filming the thriller perfect stranger, opposite halle berry, and will appear as a corrupt farmer in the film version of fast food nation. he is now filming his return to the role of john mcclane in live free or die hard which is being directed by len wiseman.
on october 16, 2006, willis was honored with a star of the hollywood walk of fame. the star is located at 6915 hollywood boulevard and it is the 2321st star on the hollywood walk of fame.

personal life.
willis was married to actress demi moore from november 21, 1987 to october 18, 2000. the couple gave no public reason for their breakup.  willis and moore had three daughters during their thirteen-year union: rumer glenn willis (born 1988), scout larue willis (1991) and tallulah belle willis (1994). since their breakup, rumors persisted that the couple planned to re-marry, but moore has since married ashton kutcher. he and moore have maintained a close relationship.

bruce was, at one point, lutheran (specifically lutheran church - missouri synod); however, he is believed by some to now be an atheist or an agnostic. this is mostly because of a statement he made in the july 1998 issue of george magazine:

"organized religions in general, in my opinion, are dying forms", he says. "they were all very important when we didn't know why the sun moved, why weather changed, why hurricanes occurred, or volcanoes happened", he continues. "modern religion is the end trail of modern mythology. but there are people who interpret the bible literally. literally!" he says incredulously. "i choose not to believe that's the way. and that's what makes america cool, you know?";

some reports from military officials suggest that willis tried to enlist in the military to help fight the second iraq war, but he was turned away because of his age. he has offered $1 million to any civilian who turns in terrorist leaders osama bin laden, ayman al-zawahiri or (now the late) abu musab al-zarqawi.

willis has said that he wants to "make a pro-war film in which american soldiers will be depicted as brave fighters for freedom and democracy". the film will follow members of deuce four, the 1st battalion, 24th infantry, who spent considerable time in mosul and were decorated heavily for it. the film is to be based on the writings of blogger michael yon, a former united states army special forces green beret who was embedded with deuce four and sent regular dispatches about their heroics.

willis was one of few hollywood celebrities to publicly support the iraq war in 2003. he has endorsed every republican presidential candidate except bob dole in 1996, because dole had criticized demi moore for her role in the movie striptease.  willis has attempted to play down his status as one of hollywood's most outspoken republicans, although he continues to vocally support the iraq war and gun ownership. in february 2006, willis appeared in manhattan to talk about his new movie 16 blocks with reporters. one reporter attempted to ask willis about his opinion on current events but was interrupted by willis in mid-sentence:

i'm sick of answering this fucking question. i'm a republican only as far as i want a smaller government, i want less government intrusion. i want them to stop shitting on my money and your money and tax dollars that we give 50 percent of... every year. i want them to be fiscally responsible and i want these goddamn lobbyists out of washington. do that and i'll say i'm a republican... i hate the government, ok? i'm apolitical. write that down. i'm not a republican.;

in a july 2006 interview with alex jones, film director richard linklater -- who believes that the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were perpetrated by the united states government to erect a police state -- said he gave one of jones's documentaries to willis. linklater said willis had told him in an e-mail that the video had changed his entire political paradigm. "he said it put him in such a head space that he will be quiet on issues of national policy," linklater said. however, michael yon, a close friend of willis confirmed that this was not true. after contacting him about the issue, yon claimed:

bruce got back to me this morning saying the press has misconstrued his statements and that this is untrue. bruce said in part,   the linklater statements have been completely misconstrued, as usual by the media.  it s clear that some media are just attaching bruce s name to gain traction. i will not talk about private communications so will keep this very brief by saying i know bruce s support for the troops is ongoing and, if anything, increasing. bruce does not believe this conspiracy theory.;

in early 2006, willis, who usually lives in los angeles, moved into an apartment located in the trump tower in new york city. willis also has a home in malibu, ca, a ranch in montana and multiple properties in sun valley, idaho.

he filled in for an ill david letterman on his show february 26, 2003, when he was supposed to be a guest. he interviewed dan rather in what he would later call "the most serious conversation of my entire life". on many of his appearances on the letterman show, willis stages elaborate jokes, such as wearing a day-glo orange suit in honor of the central park gates, or having one side of his face made up with simulated buckshot wounds after the harry whittington shooting. also on the late show with david letterman, willis was seen trying to break the holding your breath under water record (parody of david blaine) staying under for only 20 seconds.

willis signed his name on an ad in the los angeles times in support of israel, along with nicole kidman and numerous other hollywood elites. in 2006, he proposed that the united states should invade colombia in order to end the drug trafficking.

willis owns his own motion picture production company called cheyenne enterprises, as well as the mint bar and the liberty theater in hailey, idaho. he is also a co-founder of planet hollywood.

filmography.


discography.
 the return of bruno, 1987, razor & tie, asin b000002zb0.
 if it don't kill you, it just makes you stronger, 1989, motown / pgd, asin: b000008map.
 classic bruce willis: the universal masters collection, 2001, polygram int'l, asin b00004ocpa.

footnotes.



external links.
official website - shutdown since thanksgiving 2005-no word on relaunch as of december 2006;
;
about bruce at lg2s;
 bruce willis interview on the tavis smiley show;















































</doc>
<doc id="502388" title="nakagawa, tokushima" nonfiltered="183" processed="182" dbindex="183">
nakagawa (    ; -cho) is a town located in naka district, tokushima, japan.

as of 2003, the town has an estimated population of 10,576 and a density of 567.08 persons per km\b2. the total area is 18.65 km\b2.

external links.
nakagawa official website (in japanese);






</doc>
<doc id="8315309" title="skive band" nonfiltered="184" processed="183" dbindex="184">
history and influences
----
formed in 1999, skive is a power pop / modern rock band originating from singapore. their sound is a musical chimera of various influences brought into the mix by each individual of the band. they source their inspiration from oasis, the calling, story of the year, the eagles, jason mraz, john mayer, dishwalla, our lady peace, my chemical romance and atreyu. this eclectic mix contributes to the band's own unique sound they call the "skivesound".

----
members
----
the current line up consists of

marcus - vocals
soon - lead guitars
brian - guitars
jc - bass
nick* - drums

nick is currently undertaking a degree in sydney, australia so he would not be performing in some gigs ;

----
equipment
----
brian owns a couple of guitars, most of which are his experimental pieces he plays around with in his own time. on stage, he uses only 2 guitars. they are the  99 epiphone les paul custom and a 2004 gibson sg.

his pedal board configuration is always changing, but the few pedals that always seem to stay are the ibanez tubescreamer ts-9, boss cs-3 compressor and the boss ge-7 graphic equalizer. other pedals he has been seen using previously are the boss dd-6 digital delay, morley mark tremonti wah pedal, sansamp gt2 and most notably, the ibanez ts9dx flexi-4x2 that was stolen at one of his shows.


soon is always seen at shows using a variety of different guitars. besides the esp viper as his main piece, his on stage guitars include a  98 epiphone riviera,  96 fender stratocaster,  99 fernandes vertigo x and a  00 epiphone sg g400.


----
band website
skivesound.com the official skive webpage


</doc>
<doc id="4751369" title="warnockia" nonfiltered="185" processed="184" dbindex="185">


warnockia is a genus from the family lamiaceae.

species.

warnockia scutellarioides (engelm. & gray) m.w. turner   prairie brazosmint;




</doc>
<doc id="6034879" title="moulton, north yorkshire" nonfiltered="186" processed="185" dbindex="186">
moulton is a small village in the richmondshire district of north yorkshire in england. it lies in a secluded valley between the villges of scorton and middleton tyas. 

amenities.
moulton hall is a 17th century manor house, it is maintained by the national trust, but owned by  viscount eccles. it is possible to gain admission for 50 pence.

the village pub is called the black bull inn.

history.
moulton is mentioned in the domesday book as the residence of a saxon named ulph.

after the norman conquest the manor was transferred to the earls of richmond.

moulton changed hands many times, belonging to the marshall, wright, smithson, and shuttleworth families.

transport.
the village lies just to the east of the a1, but access from the village has been restricted to southbound traffic only for several years. motorists intending to travel north must head to scotch corner.

the village is served by a rural bus route between darlington and richmond.

the former railway station at moulton end (3 miles away) is named after moulton, but the nearest station was actually scorton railway station. both stations closed in 1969 with the abandonment of the eryholme-richmond branch line.





</doc>
<doc id="2147568" title="john o. pastore" nonfiltered="187" processed="186" dbindex="187">


john orlando pastore (1907-2000) was a rhode island democratic party politician who was a united states senator from rhode island (1950 until 1976) and the governor of rhode island (1945 until 1950), and was the first italian american to hold either position.

born in providence on march 17 1907, he graduated from law school at northeastern university in 1931 and practiced law in providence. he was a member to the state house of representatives from 1935 to 1937, was assistant attorney general of rhode island from 1937 to 1938 and again from 1940 to 1944, and was eventually elected lieutenant governor of rhode island in 1944. in 1946 he was elected governor of rhode island, and re-elected in 1948.

in 1950 he was elected to the united states senate as a democrat in a special election to replace j. howard mcgrath, who had resigned. he was re-elected in 1952, 1958, 1964 and 1970. 

in the summer of 1964, he delivered the keynote address at the democratic national convention in atlantic city, new jersey, which renominated lyndon b. johnson for the presidency. 

he won his final senate race in 1970 by a 68%-32% margin over john mclaughlin, a catholic priest who was against the vietnam war.  after the campaign, mclaughlin left the priesthood, went to work for richard nixon at the white house, and later became a nationally-known television commentator.


in 1976 he retired, living in cranston until his death due to kidney failure on july 15, 2000.

pastore served as the chairman of united states senate subcommittee on communications. he is remembered for taking part in a 1969 hearing involving fred rogers regarding the funding of pbs and the corporation for public broadcasting. president richard nixon had wanted to cut the proposed funding to from $20 million to $10 million, and rogers appeared before the committee to argue for the full $20 million.  in about five minutes of testimony, rogers spoke of the need for social and emotional education that public television provided. pastore was not previously familiar with rogers' work, and was sometimes described as gruff and impatient. however, he told rogers that the testimony had given him goose bumps, and declared, "looks like you just earned the $20 million." the following congressional appropriation, for 1971, increased pbs funding from $9 million to $22 million.



















</doc>
<doc id="238846" title="d.o.a. (1950 film)" nonfiltered="188" processed="187" dbindex="188">

d.o.a. is a 1950 movie considered a classic of the film noir genre. the frantically-paced plot revolves around a doomed man's quest to find out who has murdered him   and why   before he dies.

some trace the film's plot to  der mann der seinen m\f6rder sucht (looking for his murderer), a 1931 german film by robert siodmak.   the film was remade in 1969 (as the british color me dead) and again in 1988 with dennis quaid as the protagonist.

due to copyright law issues, it has fallen into the public domain.

 main cast .
edmond o'brien   frank bigelow;
pamela britton   paula gibson;
luther adler   majak;
beverly garland miss foster;
neville brand  chester;

plot.

the film begins with a scene called "perhaps one of cinema's most innovative opening sequences" by a bbc reviewer.  the scene is a long, behind-the-back tracking sequence featuring frank bigelow (o'brien) walking through a hallway into a police station to report a murder: his own.  disconcertingly, the police almost seem to have been expecting him and already know who he is.

the flashback that follows begins with bigelow's deciding to take off from his hometown of banning, california, where he is an accountant and notary public, for a one-week week in san francisco. this does no sit well with  paula (britton), his "confidential secretary" and love interest.  

after crossing paths at his hotel with a group from a sales convention, bigelow accompanies them on a night on the town.  he ends up at a jazz club, where unknown to him, a man wearing an overcoat and hat swaps his drink for another.  

by the next morning, bigelow is feeling ill. he visits a doctor, where tests are performed and he is told he has swallowed a "luminous toxin" for which there is no antidote. (its luminosity and references to iridium imply a form of radiation poisoning).


with only a short time to live, bigelow sets out to try to untangle the events behind his imminent demise, interrupted occasionally by phone calls from paula.  the murder involves gangsters and shady character, but the key to the mystery is a bill of sale for stolen iridium, which bigelow himself had unwittingly notarized.

bigelow tracks down and finds the person who had poisoned him, and shoots him to death in an exchange of gunfire. the flashback comes to an end, and bigelow, now at the police station, dies. the police detective taking  down the report instructs that his file be marked "doa," or "dead on arrival." 



critical response.
the new york times, in its may 1950 review, described it as a "fairly obvious and plodding recital, involving crime, passion, stolen iridium, gangland beatings and one man's innocent bewilderment upon being caught up in a web of circumstance that marks him for death"; o'brien's performance was said to have had a "good deal of drive", while britton added a "pleasant touch of blonde attractiveness".  

25 years later, the same paper published a brief review of the film written by wallace markfield, characterizing it as one of a number of the "very best of the b's ... made on workhouse budgets under coolie conditions" with a power "derived from the central image of one chunky, sweating, absolutely desolated human and from the way it puts the spectator inside that human's skin and nerves".

in a 1981 book, foster hirsch continued a trend of more positive reviews, calling bigelow's search for his own killer noir irony at its blackest:  
"one of the films many ironies is that his last desperate search involves him in his life more forcefully than he has ever been before.  the as is so. tracking down his killer just before he dies   discovering the reason for his death   turns out to be the triumph of his life".

a 2000 salon.com review at the time of a dvd release of the film characterized it as a "high-concept movie before its time".

perhaps the strongest endorsement came from the library of congress, which in 2004 added the film to its national film registry.

trivia.
 the nightclub in this movie includes one of the earliest depictions of the beat scene.
liquid television's stick figure theater did a version of a scene.

 quotes .
bigelow: i want to report a murder.
policeman: who was murdered?
bigelow: i was.

policeman: how shall i make out the report on him, captain?
police captain: better make it 'dead on arrival'.

references.


 external links . 

 d.o.a. from the internet archive, downloadable in various formats;
 internet movie database link;











</doc>
<doc id="3994620" title="maricarmen ramirez" nonfiltered="189" processed="188" dbindex="189">
maria del carmen (maricarmen) ramirez garcia is the governatorial candidate for the democratic revolution party (prd) in mexico.  wife of tlaxcala governor alfonso s\e1nchez anaya, she is known as the hillary clinton of mexico.  but her husband prefers to say that "perhaps hillary is the maricarmen of the united states."  maricarmen ramirez garcia is the first wife of a governor who stands out of the her traditional supportive role as a woman and seek a high political office.  ram\edrez will represent the center-left party of the democratic revolution (prd) as candidate for a tlaxcala seat in the mexican senate.



</doc>
<doc id="3119065" title="john devine" nonfiltered="190" processed="189" dbindex="190">
john anthony devine (born november 11 1958 in dublin) is an irish former footballer.

born in dublin, devine joined london club arsenal in november 1974 as an apprentice. part of a large young irish contingent at arsenal (which also included liam brady, david o'leary and frank stapleton), devine turned professional in 1976. a full back who preferred playing on the right, he made his debut for the gunners on april 28, 1978, deputising for pat rice.

with rice and sammy nelson occupying the arsenal full back positions most of the time, devine didn't break into the first team straight away, although he did play in the 1980 fa cup final (which arsenal lost 1-0 to west ham united) after rice was injured. however, rice returned to the arsenal side for the gunners' cup winners cup final against valencia, which devine missed. after rice left for watford in the summer of 1980, devine stepped up to become arsenal's regular right-back, playing 44 times in 1980-81. however, his tenure there didn't last; after devine was out of the side with injury, john hollins was moved back into defence as cover, and devine could not reclaim his place once he had regained fitness. he played only 23 games in his final two seasons at arsenal.

devine was capped for the republic of ireland at ever level, winning thirty caps in all, with thirteen of those coming for the senior side. he made his senior debut on september 26, 1979 against czechoslovakia, and his last cap came against norway on october 17, 1984. he never played in a world cup or european championship finals, as ireland did not qualify for any tournaments during that time, although most of his caps were won in european and world cup qualifying games.

devine left arsenal in the summer of 1983, having played 111 first-team matches for the club in nine years. he joined norwich city, and played 69 games in two seasons for the canaries, and was an unused sub in the canaries' league cup final win in 1984-85. he then had a stint at stoke city, but after breaking his leg his career was effectively over. he had brief spells at norwegian club i.k. start, before signing for shamrock rovers in 1989. he helped rovers to the fai cup final in 1991 before signing for indian side east bengals

he then became a coach at shelbourne. shelbourne's close ties with manchester united led to devine working with the english club, and he has been united's head of youth development in ireland since 1997.

external links.
photograph and biography at sporting-heroes.net;
career information at ex-canaries.co.uk;












</doc>
<doc id="978991" title="stamp act" nonfiltered="191" processed="190" dbindex="191">


a stamp act is a law enacted by a government that requires a tax to be paid on the transfer of certain documents such as property deeds. those that pay the tax receive an official stamp on their documents. the tax raised, called stamp duty, was first devised in the netherlands in 1624 after a public competition to find a new form of tax. a variety of products have been covered by stamp acts including playing cards, patent medicines, cheques, mortgages, contracts and newspapers. the items often have to be physically stamped at approved government offices following payment of the duty although methods involving annual payment of a fixed sum or purchase of adhesive stamps are more practical and common.

stamp acts were inforced in many countries including australia, people's republic of china, canada, ireland, malaysia, israel, the united kingdom and the united states of america.

stamp acts in britain and america.
stamp duties are the oldest taxes still raised by the inland revenue. 

 stamp acts that were an issue while colonizing america 
1689 stamp act
stamp duty was first introduced in england in 1694 following the dutch model as an act for granting to their majesties several duties on vellum, parchment and paper for 4 years, towards carrying on the war against france.

the duty ranged between 1 penny to shillings on a number of different legal documents including insurance policies, documents used as evidence in courts, grants of honour, grants of probate and letters of administration. it raised around \a350,000 a year and altm
n enjoyed a free press with satirical and seditious publications becoming more and more widely read. as well as raising money the act was an attempt to limit the readership of such publications without invoking explicit censorship.

1724 stamp act in 1724 the act was renewed, although vigorously resisted, its tax on publications was eventually enforced. in 1743 selling unstamped newspapers was made a criminal offence.


1765 stamp act this is the main stamp act of 1765
in 1765 ,list of prime ministers of the united kingdom prime minister george grenville proposed, and parliament of the united kingdom|parliamentn passed, a stamp act to be enacted in the american colonies . it placed a tax on legal documents such as contracts, licenses and wills, and on newspapers, playing cards and dice. colonial leaders protested that such a tax was "internal," or intended to regulate behavior entirely within the colonies, as opposed to the navigation laws taxes on imported good ,which were "external" and therefore acceptable. they protested also that the goal of the tax was explicitly to raise revenue, whereas the navigation laws were intended to maintain the system of mercantalism by which the empire managed its economy.

 post-american revolution stamp acts 

1777 stamp act
introduced by william pitt the younger who described stamp duty as a tax easily raised, pressing little on any particular class, especially the lower orders of society, and producing a revenue safely and expeditiously collected at small expense. he pointed out that there had been no significant increases in stamp duty for some time and so practically doubled the tax. it taxed all paper products.

1808 stamp act
stamp duty was first imposed on conveyances on sale. duties in england and scotland were equalized for the first time.

1815 stamp act
ad valorem duty was extended to more documents. newspaper stamp duty was increased to sixpence a page making papers unobtainable to all but the rich. that year the tax raised \a33,250,000.
some publishers such as richard carlile defied the law and continued to publish their newspapers without charging the extra tax. carlile was tried on charges of blasphemy and seditious libel in an attempt to close down his paper, the republican. he was found guilty, sentenced to three years in dorchester jail and fined \a31,500. 

the poet william wordsworth worked as distributor of stamps for westmorland from this time until his death. little is known of his official activities, but it seems from a government report that he was in charge of a large area and was prompt in the performance of his duties.

in the 1830s men such as henry hetherington, james watson, john cleave, george julian harney and james o'brien us congressman james o'brien joined richard carlile in fighting against what they called a 'tax on knowledge'. the men were often persecuted, being arrested and punished for contravention of the act. sales of unstamped newspapers were vastly higher than legal news sources such as the times.

1855 stamp act.
the tax on newspapers was finally abolished following pressure from the publishers' lobbying group, the newspaper stamp abolition committee led by henry hetherington.

1891 stamp act and stamp duties management act.
all the above acts were superseded by the stamp duties management act 1891 and the stamp act 1891 which still constitute the bulk of uk law on stamp duties today.

the modern uk stamp act.
in 1914 the director of stamping at the stamp office oversaw the production of the first treasury notes (later called banknotes, not to be confused with us treasury notes). this lasted until 1928 when production of banknotes passed from the department to the bank of england. in 1963 production of postage stamps passed to the post office.

the finance act 1986 introduced stamp duty reserve tax. from 27 october 1986 the charge was imposed on 'closing' transactions at the london stock exchange which until then had been transactions where no document was used and therefore exempt from stamp duty.

a public display of stamp office artefacts and records was held at the courtauld institute in 1994 to commemorate the three hundredth anniversary of the introduction of uk stamp duty. the stamp office was also awarded the charter mark by john major's advisory committee as a reward for its public service.

</doc>
<doc id="7724461" title="defluxion / boarded up swan entrance" nonfiltered="192" processed="191" dbindex="192">


"defluxion" / "boarded up swan entrance" is a 2001 7" single by venetian snares. it is his first release on the influential uk-based planet mu label. 500 copies were pressed.

tracklisting.
side a.
a - defluxion (6:13)
side b.
b - boarded up swan entrance (2:50)






</doc>
<doc id="8299869" title="alice stewart" nonfiltered="193" processed="192" dbindex="193">
dr alice mary stewart (n\e9e naish) (4 october 1906, sheffield, england to 23 june 2002, oxford, england) was a physician and epidemiologist specialising in social medicine and the effects of radiation on health. 

her pioneering study of x-rays as a cause of childhood cancer (1953) was initially regarded as unsound, but her findings were eventually accepted worldwide and the use of medical x-rays during pregnancy and early childhood was curtailed as a result. 

her most famous investigation (working with professor thomas mancuso of the university of pittsburgh) was among employees in the hanford plutonium production plant, washington, which found a far higher incidence of radiation-induced ill health than was noted in official studies. sir richard doll, the epidemiologist respected for his work on smoking-related illnesses, attributed her anomalous findings to a "questionable" statistical analysis supplied by her assistant, george kneale, but today her account is valued as a response to the perceived bias in reports produced by the nuclear industry.

in 1986 she was added to the roll of honour of the right livelihood foundation, an annual award supported by the swedish parliament.

references.



right livelihood foundation accessed 7 december 2006.







</doc>
<doc id="1043012" title="uveitis" nonfiltered="194" processed="193" dbindex="194">

uveitis specifically refers to inflammation of the middle layer of the eye, termed the "uvea" but in common usage may refer to any inflammatory process involving the interior of the eye.

uveitis is estimated to be responsible for approximately 10% of the blindness in the united states. uveitis requires an urgent referal and thorough examination by an ophthalmologist or optometrist, along with urgent treatment to control the inflammation.

types.
uveitis is usually categorized anatomically into anterior, intermediate, posterior and panuveitic forms.

 anywhere from two-thirds to 90% of uveitis cases are anterior in location (anterior uveitis), frequently termed iritis - or inflammation of the iris and anterior chamber. this condition can occur as a single episode and subside with proper treatment or may take on a recurrent or chronic nature. symptoms include red eye, injected conjunctiva, pain and decreased vision. signs include dilated ciliary vessels, presence of cells and flare in the anterior chamber, and keratic precipitates ("kp") on the posterior surface of the cornea. ;
 intermediate uveitis consists of vitritis - inflammatory cells in the vitreous cavity, sometimes with snowbanking, or deposition of inflammatory material on the pars plana.
 posterior uveitis is the inflammation of the retina and choroid. ;
 pan-uveitis is the inflammation of all the layers of the uvea.

causes.
a myriad of conditions can lead to the development of uveitis, including systemic diseases as well as syndromes confined to the eye. in anterior uveitis, no specific diagnosis is made in approximately one-half of cases. however, anterior uveitis is often one of the syndromes associated with hla-b27.

systemic disorders causing uveitis.
systemic disorders that can cause uveitis include: white g. "uveitis." allaboutvision.com. retrieved august 20, 2006.
acute posterior multifocal placoid pigment epitheliopathy;
ankylosing spondylitis ;
beh\e7et's disease ;
birdshot retinochoroidopathy ;
brucellosis ;
herpes simplex ;
herpes zoster ;
inflammatory bowel disease ;
juvenile rheumatoid arthritis ;
kawasaki's disease ;
leptospirosis ;
lyme disease;
multiple sclerosis ;
presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome ;
psoriatic arthritis ;
reiter's syndrome ;
sarcoidosis ;
syphilis ;
systemic lupus erythematosus ;
toxocariasis ;
toxoplasmosis ;
tuberculosis ;
vogt-koyanagi-harada syndrome;

masquerade syndromes.
masquerade syndromes are ophthalmic disorders that clinically present as either an anterior or posterior uveitis, but are not primarily inflammatory. the following are some of the most common:
anterior segment;
intraocular foreign body;
juvenile xanthogranuloma;
leukemia;
malignant melanoma;
retinoblastoma;
retinal detachment;
posterior segment;
lymphoma;
malignant melanoma;
multiple sclerosis;
reticulum cell sarcoma;
retinitis pigmentosa;
retinoblastoma;

symptoms.
 redness of the eye;
 blurred vision;
 sensitivity to light;
 dark, floating spots along the visual field;
 eye pain;

treatment.
the prognosis is generally good for those who receive prompt diagnosis and treatment, but serious complication (including cataracts, glaucoma, band keratopathy, retinal edema and permanent vision loss) may result if left untreated. the type of uveitis, as well as its severity, duration, and responsiveness to treatment or any associated illnesses, all factor in to the outlook.

uveitis is typically treated with glucocorticoid steroids, either as topical eye drops (such as betamethasone, dexamethasone or prednisolone) or oral therapy with prednisolone tablets. in addition topical cycloplegics, such as atropine or homatropine, may be used.

antimetabolite medications, such as methotrexate are often used for recalcitrant or more aggressive cases of uveitis.  experimental treatment with infliximab infusions may prove helpful.

see also.
list of eye diseases and disorders;
list of systemic diseases with ocular manifestations;
intermediate uveitis;

footnotes.


external links.
the heidelberg diagnosefinder - a web application to find common uveitis diseases in their typical manifestation (english/german);
 http://www.uveitissociety.org;
 http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/article/001005.htm;
interdisciplinary uveitis center heidelberg, germany;
 http://www.uveitis.org;
 http://www.preventblindness.org/uveitis;













</doc>
<doc id="1253462" title="election night special" nonfiltered="195" processed="194" dbindex="195">
"election night special" is a monty python sketch parodying the coverage of united kingdom general elections, specifically the 1970 general election on the bbc by including hectic (and downright silly) actions by the media and a range of ridiculous candidates. 

throughout the sketch, the linkman (john cleese) excitedly reports the results of the elections in leicester, luton, harpenden, and other municipalities. usually the two major parties are the sensible party and the silly party, though occasional third-party candidates (slightly silly, very silly) make their appearance. the blackadder episode dish and dishonesty features an election scene which clearly owes a debt to this sketch.

this sketch was featured in episode 19 of the monty python's flying circus tv series, which aired november 3, 1970. a somewhat different version of the sketch (leading into the lumberjack song) was also featured on the monty python live at the theatre royal drury lane album. 

the candidates and their numbers.

leicester: 

arthur j. smith (sensible) - 30,612;
jethro q. walrustitty (silly) - 32,108;

luton: 

alan jones (sensible) - 9,112;
tarquin fin-tim-lin-bin-whin-bim-lim-bus-stop-f'tang-f'tang-ol\e9-biscuitbarrel (silly) - 12,441;
kevin phillips-bong (slightly silly) - 0;

harpenden:

mr elsie zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz (silly) - 26,317;
james walker (sensible) - 26,318;
malcolm peter brian telescope adrian umbrella stand jasper wednesday (pops mouth twice) stoatgobbler john raw vegetable (sound effect of horse whinnying) arthur norman michael (blows squeaker) featherstone smith (blows whistle) northgot edwards harris (fires pistol, which goes 'whoop') mason (chuff-chuff-chuff) frampton jones fruitbat gilbert (sings) 'we'll keep a welcome in the' (three shots, stops singing) williams if i could walk that way jenkin (squeaker) tiger-draws pratt thompson (sings) 'raindrops keep falling on my head' darcy carter (horn) pussycat 'don't sleep in the subway' barton mainwaring (hoot, 'whoop') smith (very silly) - 2;

notes.
 among other changes: the live version at drury lane gave a much shorter name to the very silly candidate in harpenden and changed some of the first syllables of tarquin's surname, making it fin-tim-lim-bim-(brief pause)lim-bim-bim-bim-bim. sensible candidate james walker became jeannette walker, and silly candidate jethro q. walrustitty was referred to as jethro q. bunn whackett buzzard stubble and boot walrustitty ("bun, whacket, buzzard, stubble and boot" was an early name considered for what became "monty python."). elsie zzzzzzzzzzzz was also referred to as mrs rather than mr.
the changed name for the aformentioned very silly candidate was "malcolm peter brian telescope adrian blackpool rock stoatgobbler john raw vegetable brrroooo norman michael (rings bell) (blows whistle) edward (sounds car horn) (does train impersonation) (sounds buzzer) thomas moo... (sings) "we'll keep a welcome in the..." (fires gun) william (sound of whoopee whistle) "raindrops keep falling on my" (weird noise) "don't sleep in the subway" (cuckoo cuckoo) naaoooo... smith.";
tarquin fin-tim-lin-bin-whin-bim-lim-bus-stop-f'tang-f'tang-ol\e9-biscuitbarrel later made another appearance in the third season's spot the looney sketch.


see also.
official monster raving loony party;

external link.
"election night special" script;



</doc>
<doc id="6031696" title="capital punishment organization" nonfiltered="196" processed="195" dbindex="196">
capital punishment organization, most commonly referred to as cpo, was a gangster rap duo which consisted of artists known as lil nation (vince edwards) and dj train (clarence lars).  they released a single album in 1990, to hell and black, which was produced by mc ren of n.w.a. fame and distributed by capitol records.  to hell and black peaked at 33 on the top r&b/hip-hop albums billboard charts. 

dj train, who had worked with artists such as mc ren and j.j. fad, died of smoke inhalation in a house fire on june 25, 1994.  

lil nation has since began identifying himself as (tha) boss hogg, or "cpo" in the singular form.  cpo/boss hogg continues to make rap appearances, including the 1994 original soundtrack to above the rim, hyphy artist e-a-ski on his 1998 album, and the 2000 self-titled album by tha eastsidaz.  

discography.
 1990 - to hell and black;

collaborations.
 1994 - above the rim (soundtrack);
 1994 - murder was the case (soundtrack);
 1996 - all eyez on me;
 1998 - earthquake;
 2000 - snoop dogg presents tha eastsidaz;
 2002 - dark blue (soundtrack) ;

references.
 pareles, jon.  "gangster rap: life and music in the combat zone", the new york times.  october 7, 1990.
 to hell and black (1990) track list, discogs.





</doc>
<doc id="3652162" title="scouting in the united states virgin islands" nonfiltered="197" processed="196" dbindex="197">

scouting in the u.s. virgin islands has a long history, from the 1920s to the present day, serving thousands of youth in programs that suit the environment in which they live.

early history (1920s-1950).
recent history (1950-1990).
during the late 1960s and early 1970s, troop 152, sponsored by saint patrick's church, frederiksted, saint croix, formed a steel band of grammar-school-age scouts that was managed by vivian bennerson.  the band toured internationally.  as of 2004, the greathouse in estate diamond, saint croix that served as boy scout headquarters for the island was deserted; possibly the destruction of hurricane hugo caused its abandonment.  

scouting in the u.s. virgin islands today.

there is only one boy scouts of america local council in the united states virgin islands, eponymously named the virgin islands council. originally part of the puerto rico and virgin islands council, the political entities were separated administratively in 1960.

the howard m. wall scout camp at milord point beach on saint croix near great pond (saint croix) on the southeast end of the island is meant to accommodate up to 150 campers. it has a bath house (with two separated banks of showers and two rooms of latrines) and a mess hall. the boy scouts use the facility during two brief periods a year. there are plans in place to construct new indoor housing and upgrade at a cost of $500,000.

from time to time there have been discussions on opening the camp facility to scout groups from other councils.

order of the arrow.
the arawak lodge 562, named after a pre-columbian caribbean tribe, serves arrowmen in the united states virgin islands.

girl scouting in the united states virgin islands. 
girl scouting in the united states virgin islands is administered by the girl scout council of the u. s. virgin islands of the girl scouts of the u.s.a.

scouting in the british virgin islands.

the scout association of the british virgin islands operates as a branch of the united kingdom scout association, due to the british virgin islands' affiliation as a crown colony of the united kingdom. the bvi scout oath and law, as well as other scouting requirements, closely follow that of the united kingdom. 

although the program activities are taken from the british system, bvi scouting is geared to the caribbean way of life. training for wood badge and leader training are conducted with the help of british and nearby caribbean scout associations. bvi scouts participate in numerous caribbean camps and events.

see also.

the scout association of the british virgin islands;
 puerto rico council;








</doc>
<doc id="4922856" title="czech rugby union" nonfiltered="198" processed="197" dbindex="198">

the czech rugby union () is the governing body for rugby union in the czech republic. it was founded in 1926 and became affiliated to the international rugby board in 1988 while still the governing body for czechoslovakia.

see also.
czech republic national rugby union team

external links.
  esk\e1 rugbyov\e1 unie - official site;









</doc>
<doc id="2839445" title="ckwf-fm" nonfiltered="199" processed="198" dbindex="199">
ckwf is a radio station in peterborough, ontario, canada.  the station, launched in 1992, broadcasts an active rock format branded as the wolf 101.5.

personalities.
 promotion director carey walker and special events director paul laing.
 jay sharp, alana cameron and ryan snodden are the morning wolf pack featuring jay's joke of the day at 8:10.
 dale lowe handles the midday shift including the all request nooner and movie listings.
 brian ellis is on the air weekdays from 2-6pm for the drive home with music, jay leno, the lyric of the day and news updates.
 scott hanes hosts the evening shift as well as the alternate route, featuring new and alternative rock sunday through thursday nights.
ryan lalonde, catherine hanrahan cover the weekends along with craig gear on the all request saturday      night ;
 news crew lisa macdonald, pete dalliday, and fred rapson provide updates throughout the day.

the studio.
the studios are located in the heart of downtown peterborough at the corner of king st and george st.  they are accessible to both listeners and performers. numerous bands have dropped by the wolf den for interviews and live performances including theory of a deadman, default, 54-40, great big sea, matthew good band, sloan, see spot run and edwin.

external links.
 the wolf 101.5;







</doc>
<doc id="3490018" title="rederijker" nonfiltered="200" processed="199" dbindex="200">

a rederijker is a member of a chamber of rhetoric in flanders or the netherlands. the rederijkers from the 15th and 16th c. were mainly interested in dramas and lyrics.

the rederijker experimented with poetic form and structure.

some of their successful works that came from the rederijkers included: the play elckerlijc.


see also.

 dutch literature;
 flemish literature;

references.
 de rederijkers en hun invloed op het nederlands (dutch);
 meijer, reinder. literature of the low countries: a short history of dutch literature in the netherlands and belgium. new york: twayne publishers, inc., 1971, pp. 55-57, 62. ;












</doc>
<doc id="2026946" title="jenny eclair" nonfiltered="201" processed="200" dbindex="201">
jenny eclair (born jenny clare hargreaves on 16 march 1960 in kuala lumpur, malaysia) is a comedian, actress and novelist, working in the united kingdom.

she studied at manchester polytechnic. she appeared in the early 1990s comedy series packet of three, as well as the follow-up series packing them in. in 1995 she became the first female winner of the edinburgh festival's perrier comedy award and is also famous for having a much older brother in law. in 2005, she appeared in the singing contest, comic relief does fame academy. she lives in a manser medal award winning house in camberwell, south london.

she currently presents a weekend talk show on lbc 97.3 in london. her other radio credits include appearing on bbc radio 4 in the just a minute quiz and afternoon plays, various comedy shows on bbc 7 and regularly covering for sandi toksvig on lbc's weekday lunchime chat show.

in 2006 jenny is starring in grumpy old women live! alongside dillie keane and linda robson. the show was co-written by jenny and judith holder. the spring saw a sell out national tour, june and july a run at the lyric theatre in london's west end and the autumn will see another national tour.

she has written novels called camberwell beauty and having a lovely time.

she has a daughter called phoebe.

in 2005, eclair's recently-completed home in camberwell won the manser medal for the best one-off house designed by an architect in the uk. 

recently, eclair has appeared on comic relief does fame academy and grumpy old women










</doc>
<doc id="2306405" title="lenny hart" nonfiltered="202" processed="201" dbindex="202">
leonard "lenny" hart was a champion rudimental drummer, who owned and operated hart music, selling drums and musical instruments in san carlos, california.  he was grateful dead drummer mickey hart's father and was noted as a charismatic businessman who impressed jerry garcia and the rest of the grateful dead. he was also a minister and believed that "god" was calling him to help the grateful dead. they made him their manager in 1969. 

as the story goes, lenny hart was responsible for disappearing with large profits (approx. us$155,000) in march 1970. the grateful dead song he's gone is based on this event. as a result of the fiasco, mickey hart left the band in february 1971, not returning to the group on a full-time basis until 1975. 

in the later years of his life (before dying of stomach cancer), lenny hart dedicated himself to the creation and formulation of theories and "methods" to teach the joys of music and rhythm to children, most notably those who were deaf or hearing-impaired. his workbooks contained a strong psychological element of applied art therapy.








</doc>
<doc id="290389" title="ghq line" nonfiltered="203" processed="202" dbindex="203">
the ghq line (general headquarters line) was a defence line built in the united kingdom during world war ii to contain an expected german invasion. 

the british army had abandoned most of its equipment in france after the dunkirk evacuation. it was therefore decided to build a static system of defensive lines around england, all designed to compartmentalise the country and delay the germans long enough for more mobile forces to counter-attack.  over 50 defensive lines were constructed around england, the ghq line being the longest and most important, designed to protect london and the industrial heart of england.

the ghq line ran from the northern end of the taunton stop line near highbridge in somerset, along the river brue and the kennet and avon canal to reading, around the south of london south of guildford and aldershot, to canvey island and great chesterford in essex, before heading north to end in yorkshire.

on the section of the line in essex, between great chesterford and canvey island, the defences were made up of around 400 concrete "pillboxes", anti-tank obstacles, trenches and minefields which took advantage of natural and man made features. over 100 pillboxes could still be seen on this section in 2003.

see also.
british anti-invasion preparations of world war ii;
british military history of world war ii;
british military history;
outer london defence ring;
coquet stop line;
taunton stop line;

external links.

 ghq line;
 uk world war 2 invasion defences;
 the defence of britain project;



</doc>
<doc id="7401780" title="bass effects" nonfiltered="204" processed="203" dbindex="204">

 
bass effects are electronic devices used to modify the tone, pitch or sound or electric bass guitars. effects can be housed in effects pedals, bass amplifiers, bass amplifier simulation software, and rackmount preamplifiers or processors. while they are not used as often as guitar effects, bass effects still play an important role in many genres such as rock, metal, blues and funk.

types of bass effects.
distortion-related effects.

distortion effects include distortion, overdrive and fuzz.

distortion is an important part of an electric guitar's sound in many genres, particularly for rock, hard rock, metal and sludge. a distortion pedal takes a normal electric guitar signal and distorts the signal's waveform by "clipping" the signal. there are several different types of distortion effects, each with distinct sonic characteristics.

some distortion effects provide an "overdrive" effect. either by using a vacuum tube, or by using simulated tube modelling techniques, the top of the wave form is compressed, thus giving a smoother distorted signal than regular distortion effects. when an overdrive effect is used at a high setting, the sound's waveform can become clipped, which imparts a gritty or "dirty" tone, which sounds like a tube amplifier "driven" to its limit.

fuzz is intended to recreate the classic 1960's tone of an overdriven tube amp combined with torn speaker cones.

equalization-related effects.

equalization effects include equalizer, wah, auto-wah and phase shifters. 

an equalizer adjusts the frequency response in a number of different frequency bands. a graphic equalizer (or "graphic eq") provides slider controls for a number of frequency region. each of these bands has a fixed width (q) and a fixed center-frequency, and as such, the slider changes only the level of the frequency band. the tone controls on guitars, guitar amps, and most pedals are similarly fixed-q and fixed-frequency, but unlike a graphic eq, rotary controls are used rather than sliders.
a phase shifter creates a complex frequency response containing many regularly-spaced "notches" in an incoming signal by combining it with a copy of itself out of phase, and shifting the phase relationship cyclically. the phasing effect creates a "whooshing" sound that is reminiscent of the sound of a flying jet.
a wah pedal is a foot-operated pedal is technically a kind of band-pass filter, which allows only a small portion of the incoming signal's frequencies to pass. rocking the pedal back and forth alternately allows lower and higher frequencies to pass through, the effect being similar to a person saying "wah". 
an auto-wah is a wah pedal without a rocker pedal, controlled instead by the dynamic envelope of the signal. an auto-wah, also called more technically an envelope filter, uses the level of the guitar signal to control the wah filter position, so that as a note is played, it automatically starts with the sound of a wah pedal pulled back, and then quickly changes to the sound of a wah pedal pushed forward, or the reverse movement depending on the settings.

time-based effects.

time-based effects include delay/echo, chorus and looping.

a delay or echo pedal creates a copy of an incoming sound and slightly time-delays it, creating either a "slap" (single repetition) or an echo (multiple repetitions) effect.

chorus uses a cycling, variable delay time that is short so that individual repetitions are not heard. the result is a thick, "swirling" sound that suggests multiple instruments playing in unison (chorus) that are slightly out of tune.

extremely long delay times form a looping pedal, which allows  performers to record a phrase or passage and play along with it. this allows a solo performer to record an accompaniment or ostinato passage and then, with the looping pedal playing back this passage, perform solo improvisations over the accompaniment.

pitch-related effects.

some pitch related effects are octavers and pitch shifters.

an octaver mixes the input signal with a synthesised signal whose musical tone is an octave lower or higher than the original.

a pitch shifter is a device that alters the pitch of the instruments.  they are generally used with an expression pedal to give a smooth bend-like effect.

multi-effects pedals.

a multi-fx pedal is a single effects device that contains a number of different effects in it. some multi-fx pedals contain modelled versions of classic effects pedals or amplifiers.



</doc>
<doc id="1649500" title="constantin br\e2ncoveanu metro station" nonfiltered="205" processed="204" dbindex="205">


constantin br\e2ncoveanu is a metro station in bucharest.





</doc>
<doc id="1148155" title="ali osman taha" nonfiltered="206" processed="205" dbindex="206">



ali osman taha (also transliterated "othman" or "uthman") has been the first vice president of sudan from 1998 to the present.  he was the country's foreign minister for three years prior to becoming vice president and is a member of the national congress party (sudan) .

taha is a graduate of the faculty of law at the university of khartoum and was known for his academic prowess. he then set up a private law practice before being appointed as a judge and then entering politics as a member of sudan's parliament in the 80's.

taha, along with john garang are credited as being the co-architects of sudan's comprehensive peace agreement which brought africa's longest civil war to an end on the 9th of january 2005. 

taha heads the sudanese side of the sudanese egyptian high committee 

which is headed on the egyptian side by prime minister ahmed nazif and 
includes ministers from both countries and aims to effectualise cooperation between the two countries.








</doc>
<doc id="8531007" title="keith peters (rugby league)" nonfiltered="207" processed="206" dbindex="207">


keith peters (born 25 january, 1986) is a rising star of rugby league and has represented papua new guinea at international level. he burst onto the nrl scene in 2006 at the age of 20. he currently plays for the penrith panthers and is likely to get a lot more match time in the 2007 season. he is also likely to be a key player for png at the 2008 world cup.


</doc>
<doc id="7334134" title="hms auriga (p419)" nonfiltered="208" processed="207" dbindex="208">


hms auriga (p419), was an amphion-class submarine of the royal navy, built by vickers armstrong and launched 29 march 1945.












</doc>
<doc id="74514" title="i ching hexagram 59" nonfiltered="209" processed="208" dbindex="209">
i ching hexagram 59, depicted :|::|| is named   (huan4), dispersing. other translations: r. wilhelm/c. baynes, dispersion (dissolution); e. shaughnessy (mawangdui), dispersal.



 inner (lower) trigram is   (:|:   kan3) gorge = ( ) water;
 outer (upper) trigram is   (:||   xun4) ground = ( ) wind;
 the trigrams can be read bottom to top as "with containment (water in lower) comes becoming influential (wind in upper)";



the self-referencing i ching : using the i ching to describe itself.
the following material is drawn from analysis of the binary sequence of the hexagrams where the hexagrams are derived from recursion of yin/yang and so showing a property of the method - the hexagrams are all linked together and contribute to the expression of, the description of, each hexagram.

 the skeletal form of hexagram 59 is described by analogy to the under-exaggerated properties of hexagram 60 where we have a generic focus on limits, setting standards. this vague sense of establishing standards sets a ground for a focus in 59 on dispelling illusions, lifting the 'fog', making things 'clear' etc.

the lines:

line 1- help comes with the force of a horse. try to resolve problems at the onset before they can develop.

line 2- disperse and grab that which supports you. be flexible at the beginning of a crisis and look towards supportive allies.

line 3- dissolve yourself. do not cling to your own image of yourself. let go and you will become adaptable.

line 4- he dissolves his bond with his group. by stepping back from the group, one can attain membership in a much larger group.

line 5- floods of perspiration, great cries as the king's house is flooded. sometimes a cathartic flooding is necessary to resolve a situation.

line 6- he dissolves his own blood. he leaves. avoid danger. the way you react to external forces will shape who you are more than the external forces themselves.





</doc>
<doc id="4030769" title="nigel durham" nonfiltered="210" processed="209" dbindex="210">
nigel durham is the drummer on saxon's album destiny. he now performs with former (founder) saxon members steve dawson and graham oliver in oliver/dawson saxon.he also drums on "victim you" by son of a bitch, the name oliver/dawson saxon temporarily recorded under. they featured ted bullit on lead vocals, later replaced by kev moore from the gonads for live work. nigel drummed on two european tours before the band adopted the oliver/dawson moniker, and recruited john ward on vocals.










</doc>
<doc id="7112381" title="robert anasi" nonfiltered="211" processed="210" dbindex="211">
robert anasi, born in providence, rhode island in 1966, is an american writer and journalist. he is the author of the gloves, a nonfiction memoir of his experience boxing in the golden gloves competition. the village voice named him a "writer on the verge," and called the gloves "a streetwise loveletter to a dying sport" that "recalls norman mailer's metajournalism."
. anasi's journalism has been published in the new york times, the new york observer, publisher's weekly, and maxim. he was an artist in residence at the macdowell colony in 2005.


works.
the gloves;
 the introduction to new edition of the sweet science (by a.j. liebling) farrar, strauss & giroux;

see also.
boxing (general references)

external links.
 robertanasi's journal;





</doc>
<doc id="6639021" title="stan seymour" nonfiltered="212" processed="211" dbindex="212">
stan seymour was a footballer who played and managed newcastle united.

seymour enjoyed a distinguished career at newcastle until 1929, when he left after a disagreement with club officials. after leaving the club he became owner of a clothes shop and later a journalist. however his good service for newcastle united were not forgotten and he was appointed the club's new director in 1938.

as director he had control of first-team affairs, but like frank watt could not pick the team under the director's committee. however he had more influence on who could play than watt had during his time at the club. he was manager of the club with the directors committee from 1938-1954. the club won the fa cup in 1951 and retained it in 1952 whilst seymour was at the helm.

his son stan seymour jnr later became chairman of newcastle.








</doc>
<doc id="1530122" title="synaxarium" nonfiltered="213" processed="212" dbindex="213">
synaxarium, synaxarion, synexarium, synexarion, pl. synaxaria (greek:           , from         , synagein, to bring together; cf. etymology  of "synaxis" and "synagogue") , the name given in the eastern orthodox church to a compilation of hagiographies corresponding very closely to the martyrology of the roman church.

there are two kinds of synaxaria:

simple synaxaria: lists of the saints arranged in the order of their anniversaries, e.g. the calendar of morcelli;
historical synaxaria: including biographical notices, e.g. the menology of basil and the synaxarium of sirmond. the notices given in the historical synaxaria are summaries of those in the great menologies, or collections of lives of saints, for the twelve months of the year. as the lessons in the byzantine divine office are always lives of saints, the synaxarion became the collection of short lives of saints and accounts of events whose memory is kept.

definitions.

the exact meaning of the name has changed at various times. its first use was for the index to the biblical and other lessons to be read in church. in this sense it corresponds to the latin capitulare and comes. then the synaxarion was filled up with the whole text of the pericopes to be read. as far as the holy liturgy was concerned this meant that it was replaced by the "gospel" and "apostle" books. synaxarion remained the title for the index to the other lessons. without changing its name it was filled up with complete texts of these lessons in the same way. the mere index of such lessons is generally called menologion heortastikon, a book hardly needed or used, since the typikon supplies all that is wanted. 

the parallel to the roman martyrology would be more exact, if we imagine the second nocturn lessons arranged together in a separate book.  

certain metrical calendars extant in the middle ages were also called synaxaria. krumbacher ("gesch. der byzantin, lit.", 2nd ed., munich, 1897, pp. 738, 755) describes those composed by christopher of mytilene (d. about 1050) and theodore prodromus (twelfth century). 

examples.
the oldest historical synaxaria apparently go back to the tenth century. there are a great number of medieval synaxaria extant in manuscript. they are important for byzantine heortology and church history. the short lives that form the lessons were composed or collected by various writers. of these symeon metaphrastes is the most important. the accounts are of very varying historical value. emperor basil ii (976-1025) ordered a revision of the synaxarion, which forms an important element of the present official edition (analecta bollandiana, xiv, 1895, p. 404). the synaxarion is not now used as a separate book; it is incorporated in the menaia. the account of the saint or feast is read in the orthros after the sixth ode of the canon. it is printed in its place here, and bears each time the name synaxarion as title. synaxarion then in modern use means, not the whole collection, but each separate lesson in the menaia and other books. an example of such a synaxarion (for st. martin i, 13 april) will be found in nilles, op. cit., infra, i, xlix. 

eastern orthodox church.
the eastern churches also have their synaxaria. the publication of the arabic text of the synaxarium or the church of alexandria was started simultaneously by j. forget in the corp. script. orient. and by r. basset in the patrologia orientalis, and that of the ethiopian synaxarium was begun by i. guidi in the patrologia orient. the armenian synaxarium, called the synaxarium of ter israel, was published at constantinople in 1834.

see also.

hagiography;
paterikon;
menaion;

references.
stefano antonio morcelli, kalendarium ecclesiae constantinopolitanae (rome, 1788) ;
h. delehaye, "le synaxaire de sirmond," in analecta bollandiana, xiv. 396-434, where the terminology is explained; idem, synaxarium ecclesiae constantinopolitanae e codice sirmondiano (brussels, 1902), forming the volume propylaeum ad acta sanctorum novembris.
;
;






</doc>
<doc id="883599" title="icehouse (band)" nonfiltered="214" processed="213" dbindex="214">


icehouse is an australian band, originally billed as flowers, best known in australia in the late 1970s sydney pub scene and later in the early to mid 80s for more mainstream success and radio airplay.

they were early pioneers in the use of synthesizers in popular music.

overview.
they were formed in 1977 as flowers by iva davies (born ivor arthur davies, on 22 may, 1955, in wauchope, new south wales, australia), who was the main creative force, and a classically trained musician; and bass player, keith welsh. for a number of years they also obtained the services of bob kretschmer, until he was replaced by young guitarist paul gildea.

since 1980 icehouse has released seven albums, several compilations, and music from collaborations with other artists including dance companies. the 1987 album man of colours was released at the apex of their fame and international success.

albums.

as flowers, icehouse built up a strong following as a live act around sydney, noted for their distinctive cover versions of songs by a wide range of acts including t-rex and brian eno. after signing to the regular festival records label, they released their first album icehouse in 1980, which became a hit in australia.  the single from this album, also called "icehouse", created some interest in the u.k., partly because of a memorable video. other singles included "can't help myself" and "walls". the album made use of synthesisers, especially the sequential circuits prophet 5.

their next album release was primitive man, recorded with assistance from keith forsey, who later worked with simple minds.  this album was the source of the international hit-single "hey little girl", which has remained their most regularly played single.  another strong track from this album was "great southern land", which featured in the late 1980s film young einstein.

in 1985 davies' musical standing was further enhanced when he was commissioned to compose and record the score for the acclaimed sydney dance company production of graeme murphy's dance work boxes.

icehouse's third album, sidewalk, was far more sombre and reflective, featuring the tracks "i don't believe anymore" and "someone like you".  after this album the band made further inroads into the u.s. market with their 1986 release measure for measure.

the next album, man of colours, was their best-selling album.  it contained the hit singles "crazy" and "electric blue" (a song co-written by john oates from the band hall and oates).  with this album, the band reached an international zenith, never surpassing this level of popularity and exposure again.


recent history.
in 1995, davies was again involved with the sydney dance company's production of berlin. the musical score is a collection of cover versions of songs by david bowie, brian eno, simple minds, the psychedelic furs, frank sinatra, lou reed, roxy music, xtc, talking heads, the velvet underground, pil, the cure and killing joke, which saw him collaborating with pianist max lambert in the development of the music.

as well as recording the score to the ballet, davies performed these songs live with icehouse at each show.  he was an intrinsic part of the ballet, in a role similar to the one in boxes.  iva was extremely successful in creating a translation from the dancers to the audience.  berlin was an instant success and ran for two seasons.  both shows were the most commercially successful that the sydney dance company have had to date.

in 2002 don't believe anymore from sidewalk (1984) was covered by the whitlams on their album torch the moon.

in 2003 iva davies contributed to the score of the film master and commander: the far side of the world.

16 august 2006, icehouse were inducted into the aria  hall of fame.

a number of icehouse songs featured in the triple m essential 2006 countdown. the songs are as follows:
 man of colours (1748/2006);
 crazy (1717/2006);
 love in motion (1661/2006);
 no promises (1630/2006);
 electric blue (1559/2006);
 we can get together (1508/2006);
 sister (1251/2006);
 nothing too serious (1203/2006);
 street caf\e9 (1075/2006);
 can t help myself (944/2006);
 walls (732/2006);
 hey little girl (687/2006);
 don t believe anymore (609/2006);
 great southern land (12/2006);

soundbite.


discography.
albums.
icehouse (1980) released under the band name flowers : #4 aus (released under the band name icehouse in the us);
primitive man (1982) (later re-released in the united kingdom as love in motion) : #3 aus; #64 uk;
sidewalk (1984) : #8 aus;
measure for measure (1986) : #8 aus;
man of colours (1987) : #1 aus; #1 nz; #48 us; #38 uk;
great southern land (1989) : #2 aus ;
code blue (1990) : #5 aus;
masterfile (1992) : #25 aus;
big wheel (1993);
the berlin tapes (1995) (album of re-worked cover versions of songs by lou reed, simple minds, david bowie, xtc, and psychedelic furs, amongst others);
meltdown (2002)  (a tribute/best of album with dance remixes of some songs);
heroes (2004);
bi-polar poems (2006);

singles.
----

 "can't help myself" (1980) #10 aus;
 "we can get together" (1980) #16 aus; #62 us;
 "walls" (1981) #20 aus;
 "love in motion" (1981) #10 aus;
----

 "great southern land" (1982) #5 aus, #83 uk;
 "hey little girl" (1982) #7 aus; #17 uk; #5 germany;
 "street cafe" (1983) #57 aus; #62 uk; #28 germany;
----

 "taking the town" (1984) #29 aus;
 "don't believe anymore" (1984) #31 aus;
 "dusty pages" (1984) #82 aus;
----

 "no promises" (1985) #30 aus; #79 us; #72 uk;
 "baby, you're so strange" (1986) #14 aus;
 "mr. big" (1986) #18 aus;
 "cross the border" (1986) #65 aus;
----

 "crazy" (1987) #4 aus, #14 us; #38 uk;
 "electric blue" (1987) #1 aus; #7 us; #53 uk;
 "my obsession" (1988) #12 aus; #88 us;
 "man of colours" (1988) #28 aus;
 "nothing too serious" (1988) #29 aus;
----

 "touch the fire" (1989) #13 aus; #84 us;
 "jimmy dean" (1989) #47 aus;
----

 "big fun" (1990) #47 aus;
 "miss divine" (1990) #16 aus;
 "anything is possible" (1990) #49 aus;
----

 "love in motion" (1992) #94 aus - with chrissy amphlett of the divinyls;
----

 "hey little girl" ('97 remixes) (1997);
 "heroes" (2004);

external links.
 official iva davies icehouse site;
 spellbound   a detailed fanzine;
 the official icehouse myspace website;










</doc>
<doc id="6410866" title="marcus st hilaire" nonfiltered="215" processed="214" dbindex="215">

marcus st hilaire (born january 2, 1977 in england) is an english rugby league player who currently plays for the bradford bulls in the european super league competition. his position of choice is on the full back or wing.st hilaire played for the england 7s team in the 2002 commonwealth games.

leeds rhinos.
after signing for leeds in july 1996 "junior", as he was known, became an integral part of the rhinos seventeen-man game plan, especially under coach graham murray. 
marcus was signed from huddersfield in july 1996 and was voted the yorkshire evening post/leeds rhinos shooting star of 1998 as the most improved player. 
a brilliant runner with the ball, all to often injuries prevented from gaining the confidence he needed to shine in the leeds colours after 1999, the high point of his time at headingley. 
in total he made 65 starts for leeds plus 46 substitute appearances leading to a total of 111 appearances. he scored 39 tries to give him a haul of 156 points.
st hilaire was a try scorer at wembley in the 1999 challenge cup final when he was used in his accustomed role of coming on at full back to allow iestyn harris to move up to stand off in the second half of games.
midway through the 2002 season, st hilaire was released from the final year of his contract and rejoined huddersfield, where he helped the giants regain their place in super league.

hudderfield giants.
bradford bulls.
st hilaire recently signed improved one-year contract with the bulls.  st hilaire came from halifax in january 2006

career playing statistics.
point scoring summary.


matches played.


external links.
 marcus st hilaire offical player profile;


































</doc>
<doc id="594329" title="line of battle" nonfiltered="216" processed="215" dbindex="216">


in naval warfare, line astern or line of battle is a tactic in which the ships of the fleet form a line, end-to-end. its origins are traditionally ascribed to the navy of the commonwealth of england, especially to general at sea robert blake who wrote the sailing and fighting instructions of 1653. 

the line of battle has the advantage over previous naval tactics   in which ships closed on each other for individual combat   that each ship in the line can fire its broadside without fear of hitting a friendly ship. therefore in any given amount of time more shots can be fired by the entire fleet. another advantage is that a relative movement of the line in relation to some part of the enemy fleet allows for a systematic concentration of fire on that part. to fend off this possibility the other fleet too can move in a line, with the result so typical for sea battle since 1675: two fleets sailing along each other or in opposite tack. a ship powerful enough to stand in the line of battle came to be known as a "ship of the line" (of battle) or a "line of battle" ship which shortened to become "battleship". the line is at its most effective when moving perpendicular to the axis of movement of the enemy fleet, e.g. by "crossing the t" or by breaking the enemy line and moving through it (e.g. four days battle, battle of schooneveld, battle of trafalgar), by trying to cut off and isolate part of the enemy's line and concentrating a stronger force on it (e.g. battle of texel, battle of the saintes), or by trying to 'double up' the enemy's ships (e.g. battle of beachy head). this way the enemy ships block each other's line of fire.

development of the line of battle.

from the mid 16th century the cannon gradually became the most important weapon in naval warfare, replacing boarding actions as the decisive factor in combat. at the same time, the natural tendency in the design of galleons was for longer ships with lower castles, which meant faster, more stable vessels. these newer warships could mount more cannon along the sides of their decks, concentrating their firepower along their broadside. until the mid 17th century, the tactics of a fleet were often to 'charge' the enemy, firing bow-chaser cannon, which did not deploy the broadside to its best effect.

during the 17th century admirals gradually identified the line ahead formation as being the best way to deploy their growing firepower.  

the line in the age of sail.

the anglo-dutch wars.

modern research has shown that the first documented deliberate use seems to be in the action of 18 september 1639 by dutch lieutenant-admiral maarten tromp who employed it to damage a spanish fleet, far superior in numbers and firepower, so severely it took refuge in the downs where he would destroy it five weeks later in the battle of the downs. the united provinces, however, did not formalise it into an official doctrine.

in the 1652 battles of the first anglo-dutch war the dutch again used the line-of-battle when trying to defend themselves against the heavier english vessels. on 29 march 1653, the english issued the 'instructions for the better ordering of the fleet in fighting', instructing each of the three squadrons of their fleet to 'keep in line with their chief' and ships out of station to return to the 'wake or grain' of their flagship.

the next major battle of the war, the battle of the gabbard, was a decisive english victory and caused severe losses to the dutch fleet. 

after this war the english perfected the method; but the dutch were slower to adopt the modern tactic, still having no written instructions when the second anglo-dutch war broke out. an attempt to employ the line-of-battle against the english by dutch lieutenant-admiral jacob van wassenaer obdam failed catastrophically in the battle of lowestoft due to insufficient training and confusion among the lower ranks whether the line should be used or the direct attack. in the summer of 1665 the dutch too wrote formal instructions. michiel de ruyter used the line-of-battle with great ability in the four days battle. that the english were still more competent in it was shown in the st. james's day battle when they recovered much earlier from exceptional weather conditions causing large manpower losses to the dutch.

in the third anglo-dutch war the dutch had full mastery of the tactic as is evident by the events during the battle of schooneveld. 

the 18th century.

during the 18th century the british became rather dogmatic about the line-of-battle, trying to employ it even in unfavourable conditions, as shown in the battle of beachy head and the battles of barfleur and la hougue, where the french gained an advantage because of british inflexibility. this worsened during the 18th century when the line-of-battle became a dogmatic doctrine; in 1778, at the battle of ushant, the french escaped, in part due to british over-reliance on the line. nevertheless, the lateness of the fleet in forming the line became the pretext for the politically-motivated court-martials of admirals keppel and palliser.

after further reverses in the american revolutionary wars, where british lines proved vulnerable to faster french warships using hit-and-run tactics, the royal navy became receptive to new ideas about the line tactic. john clerk, an edinburgh merchant, published a book called 'an essay on naval tactics', emphasising the need to concentrate fire on a part of the enemy's line of battle. the book circulated widely, including to naval officers.

at the battle of the saints in 1781 a british fleet under admiral rodney broke across the enemy line instead of keeping their own line intact at all costs. whether this was deliberate, or indeed desirable, was and still is disputed. the result was nevertheless hailed as the greatest victory since the seven years war.  the battle of the first of june (1794) saw a return to the m\eal\e9e. british admirals, nelson amongst them, continued to develop offensive modifications to the simple line ahead tactic throughout the revolutionary and napoleonic wars.

sail line tactics.

for a time sea-officers were inclined to doubt whether order could be maintained among vessels subject to the forces of wind and tide. but, in the very first years of the 16th century, the spanish writer alonso de chaves argued that even an approach to order was superior to none, and that, given the accidents of wind and tide, and given that the early means of injuring an enemy at a distance were nil, the advantage would rest with the one who took his precautions. this truth was so obvious that it could not help but be universally accepted. the line ahead then became the "line of battle".

the governing principles were simple and were essentially sound. the ships were arranged in a line, in order that each should have her broadside free to fire into the enemy without running the risk of firing into her own friends. in order to remove the danger that they would collide and allow for a change of course in case of need, a space was left between them. it was fixed at two cables     that is, 200 fathoms, or 400 yards     though less room was occasionally taken.

in a large fleet, the line was typically divided into three squadrons, or divisions, each under a subordinate admiral.  note that, unlike land armies, there is no advanced guard, rear guard, and vanguard (a.k.a. main body) because changes in wind direction, sailing direction, and position of the enemy fleet would make this too confusing.  rather, one squadron usually remained under the direct command of the admiral of the fleet, one squadron was commanded by a vice admiral and one by a rear admiral, each of the three squadrons flying different coloured flags. the flag of the fleet admiral's squadron is red, the vice admiral's is white and the rear admiral's blue.  although the names vice (advanced) and rear may have derived from sailing positions within the line at the moment of engagement it was more common to refer to squadrons by their colour, or by the name and the admiral's ship and, in conversation but not in signals, by the name of the commander.

to reduce the number of men required to handle the sails, and leave them free to fight the guns, the ships fought under reduced canvas. but it was necessary to retain the power to increase the speed of a ship rapidly. this was secured by not sheeting home one of the sails   that is to say, it was left loose, and the wind was "spilt out of it". when the vessel was required to shoot ahead it was easy to sheet the sail home, and "let all draw". the fleets would fight "on the wind"   that is to say, with the wind on the side, because they were then under better control. with the wind blowing from behind they would take the wind out of one another s sails. when the course had to be altered, the ships turned by tacking   that is, head to wind   or by wearing   that is, stern to wind, either together or in succession. 

to tack or wear a large fleet in succession was a very lengthy operation. the second ship did not tack, or wear, till she had reached the place where the first had turned, and so on, down the whole line. by tacking or wearing together the order of a fleet was reversed, the forward sqaudron becoming the rear, and the rear the van. it must be remembered that a fleet was divided into squadrons, which kept their names even when the order was reversed. orders were given by signals from the flagship, but as they could not always be seen by the ships in a line with her, frigates were stationed on the disengaged side of the line to repeat signals. 

a main object which the admirals who drafted the british sailing and fighting instructions had before them was to obviate the risk that the enemy would double on one end of the line and put it between two fires. it is obvious that if two fleets, a and b, are sailing, both with the wind on the starboard side, and the leading ship of a comes into action with the seventh or eighth of b, then six or seven leading ships of b s line will be free to turn and surround the head of a s line, a tactic known as doubling. this actually happened at the battle of beachy head (1690). therefore, the orders enjoin on the admiral the strict obligation to come into action in such a way that his leading ship shall steer with the leading ship of the enemy, and his rear with the rear. the familiar expression of the british navy was "to take every man his bird". 

the regular method of fighting battles was thus set up. in itself it was founded on sound principles. as it was framed when the enemies kept in view were the dutch, who in seamanship, strategy and tactics and gunnery were fully equal to the british, its authors were justified in prescribing the safe course. unhappily they added the direction that a british admiral was to keep his fleet, throughout the battle, in the order in which it was begun. therefore he could take no advantage of any disorder which might occur in the enemy s lines.

the line in the age of steam.

the logic of the line of battle remained true even through many evolutions of naval technology in the 19th and early 20th century. with very few exceptions, gun-armed ships continued to bring their greatest fire to bear on their broadside. there was a brief period in the late 19th century when ramming became a popular method of attack, for instance at the battle of lissa or the battle of the yalu river, which both used markedly different tactics. however, ramming fell out of fashion again, and by 1900 the line of battle was back, used in the battle of tsushima of 1905, the battle of jutland in 1916 and finally in the the battle of surigao strait in 1944.

during world war ii the development of aircraft carriers and the guided missile meant that gun engagements would never again be decisive. this meant there was no rationale for using a line-of-battle formation. in modern naval warfare, a battlegroup generally deploys with the highest-value units in the centre, accompanied closely by anti-aircraft escorts, with a number of anti-submarine escorts surrounding the formation at a distance of tens of miles.

in fiction.

some military science fiction works revive the term "battle-line", or its 3d analogon, "wall of battle", to refer to the heavy warships of a space fleet.

see also.
 naval tactics in the age of sail;
 crossing the t;

sources.
rodger, n.a.m. the command of the ocean, a naval history of britain 1649-1815. allen lane, london, 2004. isbn 0-713-99411-8






</doc>
<doc id="2246155" title="pinto, madrid" nonfiltered="217" processed="216" dbindex="217">
pinto is a town in the southeast of madrid (spain) ().

formerly, the belief was that pinto sat on the geographic middle of the iberian peninsula, hence its name comes from the latin  punctum, "point".

limits.
to the north: getafe.
to the south: torrej\f3n de velasco and valdemoro.
to the east: san mart\edn de la vega.
to the west: parla and fuenlabrada.

history.

religious monuments.
ermita de san ant\f3n ("saint anthony abbot hermitage"). its environment is now transformed by the construction of a mall.
ermita del cristo ("christ hermitage") in its interior is a crucified christ that it enjoys great popular fervor. ;
iglesia parroquial de santo domingo de silos ("parish of saint dominique of silos");

civilian monuments.
\c9boli tower, wher the princess of eboli was held. ;
centro cultural infanta cristina. it was thought until recently that this building, then known as casa de la cadena (house of the chain), provided accommodations for the catholic monarchs, but serious historical studies deny such possibility.
centro municipal de cultura ("local culture center");
francisco rabal town theatre.

culture.
a spanish proverbial phrase is estar entre pinto y valdemoro, literally "being between pinto and valdemoro", meaning "being neither here nor there", "being undecided".

famous locals.

 gonzalo de arteaga, local chronist, writer and archaeologist.
 carlos lape\f1a mor\f3n, writer.
 pilar ora\e1, sculptress.
 diana abad, gymnast.
 rosario de acu\f1a, writer.
 alberto contador, liberty seguros cyclist.
 augusto klappenbach, university professor;

demography.


administration.
;


local holidays.
 fiesta de san ant\f3n, january 17;
 fiestas del cristo, from june 3 to june 12;
 asunci\f3n de mar\eda|nta. sra. de la asunci\f3n, august 15;
 domingo de silos|santo domingo de silos, december 20;

leisure.
 juan carlos i park.
 shopping mall plaza \c9boli.

nature.
 regional park of the southeast.

external links.

pinto town hall;
el buz\f3n pinto digital newspaper;
pinto forum;
pinto s partido popular;
juntos por pinto (political institution);
la casa de pinto (house of pinto);
ceip el prado (public school el prado);
entre pinto y valdemoro guide of events, movies, and other things in pinto and valdemoro (in spanish);
ceip europa (public school europa);
pinto] at the instituto nacional de estad\edstica;
zigzag digital digital newspaper of pinto and outskirts;
zona sur sports newspaper of pinto;










</doc>
<doc id="193960" title="steve bell (cartoonist)" nonfiltered="218" processed="217" dbindex="218">
for the canadian musician, see steve bell (musician).;


steve bell (born february 26, 1951) is an english political cartoonist, whose work appears in the guardian and other places. he is known for his left-wing views and distinctive caricatures.

born in walthamstow, london and raised in slough, bell moved to north yorkshire with his family in 1968, where he trained as an artist at the teesside college of art as well as the university of leeds. he was briefly an art teacher in birmingham before becoming a freelance cartoonist in 1977. his comic strip maggie's farm appeared in the london listings magazines time out from 1979 and later in city limits. in 1980, he contributed a cartoon interpretation of the lyrics to ivan meets g.i. joe to the inner lyric bag of the clash's triple album sandinista!.

steve bell is perhaps best-known for the daily strip called if..., which has appeared in the guardian newspaper since 1981, and since the mid-1990s he has also been that newspaper's principal editorial cartoonist. one of bell's most traditional caricatures is of john major as a dire superhero wearing his y-fronts on the outside of his clothes (and indeed major later admitted he tucked his shirt into his underwear). he has won many awards for his work, including both the political and strip cartoon categories at the cartoon arts trust awards in 1997.

many collections of his cartoons have been published, and he has also illustrated original books in collaboration with several authors. he has made short animated films with bob godfrey, and a radio programme about the life of 18th century caricaturist james gillray. he has also drawn the gremlins comic strip for the british comic jackpot.

in 2003, he was listed in the observer as one of the 50 funniest acts in british comedy. when he received the award in 2004 for best daily cartoonist, in his speech he thanked "george bush - for looking like a monkey, walking like a monkey and talking like a monkey".

opinions are divided about the merits of steve bell's work.  like most cartoonists he uses running gags, and therefore seems funnier to regular than to occasional readers.   but even among guardian aficionados, there is an ongoing bell vs garry trudeau (and therefore if... vs doonesbury) debate, occasionally spilling onto the paper's letters page, which exists mainly because the two comic strips were, for many years, carried by the guardian next to each other.  the debate is as much about taste as anything else, prompted for example by bell's typical juxtaposition of toilet humour with high art.  he is fond of parodying famous paintings. examples include his parody of goya's the sleep of reason brings forth monsters (in an editorial cartoon about the uk independence party); william hogarth's the gates of calais about the ban on uk meat exports following outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease and bovine bse; and - before the 2005 general election when it briefly seemed as if the liberal democrats might seriously threaten labour - j.m.w. turner's the fighting temeraire), in which a chirpy charles kennedy as tug-boat towed a grotesque and dilapidated tony blair to be broken up. bell is also fond of using the pejorative british word "wanker" and its euphemistic variants in his if... comic strip.

external links.
 guardian cartoons by steve bell;
interview alongside martin rowson;
 interviewing robert crumb, 2005;
biography article at centre for the study of cartoons and caricature, university of kent ;










</doc>
<doc id="4003311" title="nokia 7600" nonfiltered="219" processed="218" dbindex="219">
the nokia 7600 is a digital imaging mobile phone released by nokia in the 3rd quarter of 2003.

the nokia 7600 features an integrated digital vga camera, capable of taking photos with a 640x480 resolution, and video clips of a 128x96 resolution (lasting up to 50 minutes). videos and photographs can be previewed on the phone's 65,536 colour tft display, measuring 128x160 pixels.

it can hold 30mb of data on its internal memory for contact details (including a photographic phonebook), video clips, images, ringtones, messages, music files, calendar details, notes and java applications.

the phone has many connectivity options, including infrared data transfer through its integrated port (located on the left side of the phone), bluetooth wireless file transfer technology, mms options and direct file transfer via a nokia dku-2 (pop-port-to-usb) cable to compatible pcs.

it also features a digital music player that supports both mp3 and aac file formats, which can be used as ringing tones, as well as listened to through a stereo headset or the internal loudspeaker.

the 7600 has a dual mode operation mode on both the w-cdma and gsm 900/1800 networks, and was the second nokia phone which supported w-cdma (2100 mhz) mobile networks (although the previous w-cdma phone, the nokia 6650, was only a prototype and never became widely used). nokia's w-cdma successor to the 7600 was the nokia 6630 smartphone.

it is capable of high-speed data transfer up to 57.6 kilobits per second (in circuit switched data networks), as well as a 384 kbps download rate and 64 kbps upload rate (in w-cdma packet transmission networks).

external links.
nokia 7600 official european website;
nokia worldwide portal;
nokia uk website;









</doc>
<doc id="8651523" title="autoindex php script" nonfiltered="220" processed="219" dbindex="220">



autoindex php script is a free, open source software package written in php.  it makes an index of a directory on a website and lets users access the files and subdirectories.  it includes a searching feature, file uploading, access logging, and file descriptions.

members of its user community have translated the software into 35 languages.

autoindex also acts as an online file manager though the use of an administration panel.  this allows someone who is logged in with an administrator account to upload, rename, and delete files.

 version 1 .
version 1 is compatible with both php 4 and php 5.  this is currently considered the "legacy" version, because it is released for compatibility with php 4.

however, version 1 is still maintained to include bug fixes and security updates, although no new features are added.

 version 2 .
version 2 was rewritten in php 5 to make use of its object-oriented features.  this version added:
 .htaccess parsing;
 ftp access;
 a template system for customizing the layout;
 on-the-fly tar archive creation;
 the ability to assign a home directory to each user;

note that version 2 requires php 5 or later to be used.

 references .


 external links .
official website;
project site (sourceforge.net);
autoindex review by research computing at dana-farber cancer institute;



</doc>
<doc id="3618333" title="the perfect storm (film)" nonfiltered="221" processed="220" dbindex="221">
 
the perfect storm is a 2000 film adapted from the book of the same title by sebastian junger. the film was directed by wolfgang petersen and features george clooney, mark wahlberg, diane lane, karen allen and mary elizabeth mastrantonio.1



 plot .
in september  1991  the swordfishing boat andrea gail  returns to home port in gloucester, massachusetts  with a poor catch. desperate for money the captain convinces his reluctant crew to join him for one more fishing expedition. they head out past their usual fishing grounds, leaving a developing storm behind them. they find great success at the flemish cap, but when their ice machine breaks the only way to preserve their catch is to hurry back home. however between the andrea gail and gloucester is a confluence of 2 powerful weather fronts and a hurricane. the crew struggles to sail through pounding waves and shrieking winds, while friends and family worry and wait for a ship that may never come home.2

 reaction .    	
the families of certain crew members disliked the movie and sued the producers in federal district court in florida. the district court held that the defendants' first amendment right to freedom of speech barred the suit. the plaintiffs appealed to the u.s. court of appeals for the 11th circuit, which could not decide how to interpret the florida law at issue and certified the question to the florida supreme court. on april 21, 2005, the florida supreme court upheld the district court's interpretation of florida law and remanded the case to the 11th circuit, which then affirmed the district court's original decision to dismiss the case.

 see also .
 129th rescue wing;
 air force pararescue;
 1991 halloween nor easter;

 references .

1.berardinelli,james, the perfect storm film review,reelviews.net, 2000, retrieved on 2007-1-25  

2. berardinelli,james, the perfect storm film review,reelviews.net, 2000, retrieved on 2007-1-24  



 external links . 
 plot and background at reelviews.net;
;
;
;















</doc>
<doc id="5294905" title="operations order" nonfiltered="222" processed="221" dbindex="222">
an opord or operations order is a standardized multiparagraph military order used in the united states military.

 example format .

1. situation
a. enemy.
(1)weather.
(2)terrain.
(3)enemy forces.
b. friendly.
c. attachments and detachments.

2. mission. 

3. execution.
a. concept of the operation;
b. specific tasks to subordinate units.
c. coordinating instructions.

4. service support.
a. general.
b. material and services.
c. medical evacuation and treatment.
d. personnel.
e. miscellaneous.

5. command and signal
a. command.
b. signal.

6. poc (point of contact)

 references .
fm 17-97 cavalry troop (october 1995);






</doc>
<doc id="1774243" title="leonid potapov" nonfiltered="223" processed="222" dbindex="223">
leonid vasil'ievitch potapov (                         ) (born july 4 1935 in buryatia) has been the president of the buryat republic in russia since august 1991. he has been reelected three times (in 1994, 1998 and 2002), last time in 2002, when he received 68% of the vote. 
in 1959 he graduated as an engineer from habarovsk institute of railway transport. from january to april 1990 was nominal vice president (vice chairman of supreme council] of turkmenistan. in april 1990 returned to buryatia and was nominated as a local communist party chief (1st secretary of cpsu buryatian branch).

external links.
 official presidential website;








</doc>
<doc id="56996" title="absolutely fabulous" nonfiltered="224" processed="223" dbindex="224">


absolutely fabulous was a british sitcom written by and starring jennifer saunders, and co-starring joanna lumley and julia sawalha. it aired on the bbc from 1992 to 2004, and is popularly referred to as ab fab. in 2004, it came 17th in britain's best sitcom. 

background.
absolutely fabulous grew from a french & saunders sketch called modern mother and daughter, which starred jennifer saunders as the mother and dawn french as the daughter. contrary to persistent popular belief, the show has no connection, other than the character's name, to the earlier film eddie monsoon: a life?, a comedy play written by saunders' husband adrian edmondson in 1984 for the tv series the comic strip presents.... the name eddie monsoon is derived from edmondson's name and is a nickname of his.

cast.
jennifer saunders - edina 'eddy' monsoon;
joanna lumley - patsy stone;
julia sawalha - saffron 'saffy' monsoon ;
june whitfield - june monsoon (mother/gran);
jane horrocks - bubble (all series) and katy grin (series 4 and 5);
christopher ryan - marshall turtle ;
mo gaffney - bo turtle (n\e9e crysalis);
christopher malcolm - justin (series 1 to 2003 special);
helen lederer - catriona ;
harriet thorpe - fleur  ;
naoko mori - sarah (series 1 to 5) ;
gary beadle - oliver (series 1, series 3 and 1996 special);
kathy burke - magda (series 1 to 1996 special);
tilly blackwood - lady candida de dennison-bender (series 4);
felix dexter - john johnstone (series 5 and 2003 special);
celia imrie - claudia bing (series 3 and 4);

special guests.
many celebrities appeared as themselves in the series. they were;


 lulu;
 zandra rhodes;
 britt ekland;
 naomi campbell;
 christopher biggins;
 bruce oldfield;

 nicky clarke;
 christian lacroix;
 suzy menkes;
 twiggy;
 richard and judy;
 richard e grant;

 rufus wainwright;
 sacha distel;
 leigh lawson;
 dale winton;
 graham norton;

 debbie harry;
 emma bunton;
 fern britton;
 mariella frostrup;
 elton john;

 minnie driver;
 jean-paul gaultier;
 suzi quatro;
 terence conran;
 erin o'connor;


plot.
edina monsoon and patsy stone are two immature, prosperous, but preposterous substance-abusing fashion and fad-obsessed londoners who value fame and style over substance (unless they are controlled substances). saffron, edina's daughter, provides the persistently dour voice of monsoon and stone's superego. edina and saffy live in a house in holland park, with patsy spending most of her time there as well. 

the programme circles around eddy's constant struggle to achieve fame and success amidst the disapproval of her daughter and the constant presence of her increasingly senile mother. throughout, patsy is at her side encouraging the behaviours that are constantly causing her conflict. much of the comedy of the show is physical, usually derived from edina and patsy's drunken and/or stoned states, with their favourite drinks being "bolli stoli" (a cocktail of bollinger champagne and stolichnaya vodka) and later "veuve bourbs" (a mix of veuve clicquot champagne and bourbon). the mutual loathing between saffy and patsy as each tries to guide edina's behaviour also makes for many comic situations. a recurring gag found new ways for edina to fall headfirst out of cars, windows, or down her kitchen stairs at least once every series.

characters.
eddy.
edwina margaret rose monsoon was born on 6 august 1951 in london.  she later changed her name to edina and is nearly always called eddy; only her mother, and once justin, calls her edwina. she owns a public relations firm whose only steady client is 1960s pop singer lulu, who is barely hanging on by a thread. in later years, this was switched to model twiggy and former spice girl emma bunton, who also went to school with saffy. though failing in her business, edina is desperate to give off the aura of success, wealth and fabulousness, even as her outrageously mismatched and poorly-fitted wardrobe belies this. in an early episode, edina says that she has always voted labour, but she notes her disdain for new labour in the fourth series. she collects hefty alimony payments from her two ex-husbands, justin and marshall. justin, saffy's father, is gay and for a time had a boyfriend named oliver. her first husband, marshall turtle, the father of her gay and perpetually off-screen son serge, later marries scheming new-age californian bo chrysalis.

patsy.
eurydice colette clytemnestra dido bathsheba rabelais patricia cocteau stone, always called patsy, is an outrageous, nymphomaniacal, chain-smoking, past-her-prime fashion model who drinks like a fish. she shares a codependent parasitic existence with her old schoolfriend eddy. this relationship usually results in hilarious, albeit dysfunctional, behaviour and over-the-top conflicts. unlike eddy, she is always stylishly dressed, and had a well-paying, do-nothing job with a fashion magazine, which she received after sleeping with the publisher. she then went on to work in "jeremy's" an exclusive high street fashion store, with clients such as minnie driver. patsy was born in paris, and her birthday is 30 october, although her actual age is never divulged and she often states herself to be "39" or "41". her mother was very promiscuous, and neglected patsy, treating her more as a rival than a daughter. there are several none-too-subtle hints that during the 1970s patsy underwent a sex change and briefly lived as a man; however, as eddy reveals, "it fell off".  patsy also has an older sister, jackie, whom eddy abhors and who once tried to kill patsy. in two earlier episodes ("door handle" and "the last shout"), it is revealed that patsy lives in the storeroom above oddbins, a uk chain liquor store.

saffy.
edina and justin's daughter saffron was born on 17 march 1975 in london. although most people call her "saffy", she is also frequently referred to by eddy as "sweetie", "darling", or "sweetie darling" and (by patsy) as "the bitch troll from hell" or "the bitch daughter". she is the perfect foil for eddy and patsy, depicted as the ever-virtuous high-minded intellectual who endures bombastic abuse and immature snideness from both, especially with regard to sex.  she is the voice of reason, a thankless job in the monsoon household. after completing her education, she takes up writing in series four; at one point, she becomes involved with new labour, and says her role model is cherie blair. in series five, when she returns home pregnant from a stint of humanitarian work in africa, eddy is at first aghast at the prospect of being a grandmother; that is, until she learns that the father is black, making the baby multiracial and, as such, an utterly fabulous fashion accessory ("a mixed race baby is the chanel of babies!"). saffy later gives birth to a daughter called jane, although eddy persists in referring to her as 'lola'. saffy is the legal owner of the house.

gran/mrs. monsoon.
edina's mother, mrs. monsoon, is an average, sensible woman despised by her daughter but much loved by her granddaughter saffy. patsy seems to tolerate "mrs. m" and even helps her to do chores. in the first few series, she is a valuable ally for saffy in her struggle for domestic control, often mentioning embarrassing facts from eddy's and patsy's early lives. after series three, however, her mental faculties begin to decline and she increasingly inhabits a strange world of her own. eddy addresses her, usually indirectly, as "the old woman", never as "mum", "mummy", or even "mother". in only one scene throughout the entire run of the show are the two alone together, and it's an awkward experience for them both. when gran's husband, affectionately known as "daddy", dies during series 2, eddy infuriates saffy by responding to the news with a blank stare and the question "did he leave a will?"; gran, however, doesn't seem to care much either.  she appears in flashbacks of edina's past wearing the stereotypical housewife's clothing of the 1960s.

bubble.
eddy's secretary bubble, a charming disaster, can't remember what a television is called but can speak several foreign languages. bubble's cousin katy grin is a television presenter trying to make the big time again after having a baby.

episodes.


absolutely fabulous first aired on 12 november 1992, and ran for three series until 4 may 1995, when the sixth episode of series 3 was billed as the last-ever episode. however, the following year in november 1996, two specials, called "the last shout", were broadcast and were also billed as the last-ever episodes. both 'last episodes' featured end sequences with flashes to the future. however, after writing mirrorball, jennifer saunders decided she had more ideas , and on 31 august 2001 the fourth series premiered. a further series and three specials followed, the last of which aired on 25 december 2004. in july 2005, saunders announced she would not be writing or playing edina again, stating "the 6am calls to go to make-up and all the promotional work wear you down. i would like to write and direct   that would be my joy".

theme song.
the theme song for ab fab is called this wheel's on fire written by bob dylan and rick danko and performed in this instance by julie driscoll and adrian edmondson. the song was also sung by marianne faithfull and p. p. arnold for the last shout special in 1996. this version does not appear on the new bbc video dvd release. more recently, it has been sung by blondie lead singer, debbie harry, who also guest-starred in the 2002 christmas special "gay".

in addition to the official theme song, in 1994, the pet shop boys recorded a song for comic relief using excerpts of dialogue from the series put to dance music. the music video featured clips from the show and specially recorded footage of the pet shop boys with patsy and edina.

following.
with its outlandish depictions of drug and alcohol abuse and irresponsible, irreverent, and frequently illegal behaviour, the series gained a large and loyal following, as well as attracting censure from various groups. the programme was widely popular in britain, and gained noteworthy attention in other countries.

other countries.
in the united states, absolutely fabulous has been broadcast on comedy central, pbs, bbc america, and since 2003 oxygen network as well. in australia, all series were originally shown on the abc, and on cable it airs on uk.tv. repeats of the first three series were also shown on the seven network. the abc continues to show it sporadically and shows christmas specials and occasional repeats of series five or six episodes. in canada it airs on comedy network and since 1994, cbc. in serbia, the first series was aired in 1998, through a network of local television stations; in 2004 the series was aired in its entirety on b92 while in the czech republic all episodes have been shown. 

remakes.
absolutely fabulous inspired a french feature film, called absolument fabuleux, in 2001. this was written and directed by gabriel aghion, and starred josiane balasko as eddie and nathalie baye as patsy.  jennifer saunders had a small cameo as a spectator at a fashion show. 

a proposed american remake that would have starred carrie fisher was put into motion by roseanne barr but never got off the ground. however, barr did incorporate many elements of the show into the final season of her eponymous show roseanne in which her character wins the lottery, even hiring saunders and lumley to reprise their absolutely fabulous characters edina and patsy in one episode. an american sitcom called "high society", a direct remake of "absolutely fabulous" but toned down for american audiences, starring jean smart and mary mcdonnell, lasted only a shortened single season, but did garner an emmy nomination for jayne meadows in the role of mcdonnell's character's mother. the american sitcom cybill, although not directly intended as a remake, shared some elements of ab fabs comedic style. in 2000, a short-lived canadian version called p.r. also aired.

mirrorball.
mirrorball was a show written by saunders that featured a completely different plot and set of characters, but starred all of the main cast of absolutely fabulous. while not being a remake or spin-off, it is the only time in british tv history that two identical casts were used in two totally different shows. only a pilot of mirrorball was ever made. 

dvd releases.
all episodes of absolutely fabulous have been released on dvd in region 2 (uk), by 2 entertain video, with the exception of the 2004 christmas special. series 1-5, in addition to the specials "the last shout" and "ab fab: new york" (released under the title "absolutely fabulous: absolutely special"), have also been released on dvd by warner brothers and bbc video in region 1 (us/canada).  the original french and saunders sketch is an 'extra' on the series one dvd (on both the uk and us versions), and the pilot of mirrorball is an extra on the dvd of series 4. each series' dvd also features a fifteen-minute outtake reel.

footnotes.




external links.

;
absolutely fabolous at bbc.co.uk;
absolutley fabulous at the bbc comedy guide;
absolutely fabulous at british tv comedy guide ;
absolutely fabulous at episode world;
ab fab online;
absolutely fabulous at the british sitcom guide;
absolutely fabulous at the british film institute screen online;













</doc>
<doc id="3579748" title="clouseau in 't lang" nonfiltered="225" processed="224" dbindex="225">
clouseau in 't lang is the name of the concert given by the flemish band clouseau in 2005 at the antwerp sportpaleis merksem.  the name was inspired by the 6 meter wide, 40 meter long catwalk in the concert hall from which the band played.  this unusual arrangement made it possible for the entire hall to see the band more or less equally.

video of the concert will be available on a dvd with the same name starting in february 2006.





</doc>
<doc id="4593082" title="percy jones (musician)" nonfiltered="226" processed="225" dbindex="226">
percy jones is a welsh bass guitarist, and was a member of brand x from 1974 to 1980. he appears sporadically with the band at reunion shows, most recently the 'rebranded' tour of 1999. he currently is the bassist in the jazz/fusion band tunnels, along with drummer john o'reilly jr. and midivibist marc wagnon.--dla--

jones is best known for his unique bass sound, and his trademark use of the fretless wal bass.

 tunnels' official website;







</doc>
<doc id="6852363" title="aqa hasan" nonfiltered="228" processed="226" dbindex="228">
maulana syed aqa hasan naqvi (                       ) was a mujtahid from lucknow, india who preached shia islam and came from a family of scholars known as "khandaan-e-ijtehad". he married into khandaan-e-ijtehad, his wife was the daughter of syed mohammad, who was the oldest son of syed dildar ali, also known as ghufran ma'ab.

at one time, he was the imam-e-juma of the asafi masjid in lucknow, india. the same position was held by his descedents (in chronological order): maulana syed kalbe hussain, maulana syed kalbe abid and currently maulana syed kalbe jawad.

at the time of maulana syed aqa hasan the other leading scholars were maulana syed mohammad baqir "baqir-ul-uloom", maulana syed nasir hussain "nasir-ul-millat" and maulana syed najmul hasan "najmul millat".









</doc>
<doc id="7209822" title="martin luther king high school (lithonia, georgia)" nonfiltered="229" processed="227" dbindex="229">
the martin luther king, jr. high school is a high school in lithonia, georgia. it opened in august, 2001, as a high school in the dekalb school system.

 external links .
the official international baccalaureate website;
school website;






</doc>
<doc id="4561293" title="musicip" nonfiltered="230" processed="228" dbindex="230">
musicip is a music search engine which uses an algorithm for generating unique acoustic fingerprints. from these fingerprints, songs can be identified by their acoustic signature regardless of differences at the digital data level (file format, data compression rates, etc). while the technology required to create fingerprints is proprietary, identifying tracks against the existing fingerprint database can be done freely through the musicdns service.

musicip technology also features the ability to analyse musical content for meaningful (to humans) musical attributes, so that the software is able to identify tracks that are acoustically similar. this feature forms the basis of musicip's primary software application, musicip mixer.

see also.
 musicip mixer;
 musicdns;
 list of online music databases;

external links.
musicip.com;
musicdns.org;
musicip mixer add-ons and community site (unofficial);
;






</doc>
<doc id="2504158" title="1927-28 nhl season" nonfiltered="231" processed="229" dbindex="231">
the 1927-28 nhl season was the eleventh season of the national hockey league. ten teams played 44 games each. the new york rangers won the stanley cup beating the montreal maroons becoming the first united states based team since the formation of the nhl to win it and first since the seattle metropolitans won in 1917. this season saw the reintroduction of the o'brien trophy, which used to go to the nhl league champion. it was originally retired in favour of the prince of wales trophy. the reintroduced o'brien trophy went to the winner of the canadian division while the prince of wales trophy went to the winner of the american division.

regular season.
the ottawa senators, by far the smallest market in the league,were affected by franchises in the u.s. and, thus, escalating salaries, and were in financial trouble as a result and requested a bigger road receipt from the other teams. they also sold their star right wing hooley smith to the montreal maroons for $22,500 plus the return of right wing punch broadbent, followed by the sale of defenceman ed gorman to toronto. part of the problem was that fans in ottawa tended to only attend games with canadian opponents.

howie morenz, the nhl's top drawing card, dominated the scoring race and was runaway winner of the hart trophy. he scored 33 goals and led the league in assists as well. despite ottawa's financial difficulties, alex connell, ottawa goalkeeper, set an all-time record with six consecutive shutouts or a period of 460 minutes and 59 seconds without being scored on.

toronto, now the maple leafs, showed power early on and it looked like they would make the
playoffs. however, injuries to hap day and bill carson doomed the team and the leafs
sagged to fourth and out of the playoffs.

thanks to the great play of eddie shore and goaltender hal winkler, who tied with connell for the leader in shutouts with 15, the boston bruins finished first for the first time in the american division, while the canadiens, who were running away with the canadian division at mid-season, slumped after an injury to pit lepine but managed to hold onto first place at season's end.

final standings.
note: w = wins, l = losses, t = ties, pts = points, gf= goals for, ga = goals against, pim = penalties in minutes

note: teams that qualified for the playoffs are highlighted in bold




leading scorers.
note: gp = games played; g = goals; a = assists; pts = points


leading goaltenders.

stanley cup playoffs.
in the canadian division,the montreal maroons beat the ottawa senators and then went to
the pulsating limit against the canadiens before russell oatman put the maroons into
the finals with a goal in overtime.

in the american division, the new york rangers knocked off the pittsburgh pirates in a rough series, and then beat boston to go to the finals against the montreal maroons. the circus knocked the rangers out of madison square garden, and all games would be played in the montreal forum, even though boston offered to host the rangers. the maroons won game one 2-0, with nels stewart and goaltender 
clint benedict the stars. drama took over in game two when nels stewart fired a hard shot that struck new york goaltender lorne chabot in the eye. he could not continue, and the rangers needed a goaltender. however, when coach eddie gerard refused to let the rangers use alex connell or minor league goaltender hugh mccormick, lester patrick, ranger coach, in anger, decided to don the pads himself. the rangers then body-blasted any maroon who got near patrick. bill cook scored, putting the rangers ahead 1-0, but nels stewart was not to be denied and scored,tying the game. in overtime, frank boucher got the winner for the rangers and they carried patrick, tears streaming down his eyes, off the ice. 
joe "red light" miller, new york americans goalie, was allowed to take chabot's place in goal and he played well in a 2-0 loss in game three. however, frank boucher starred as the rangers took the next two games, and the stanley cup. drama almost took place in the final game when miller was badly cut on a shot, but he was able to continue. the crowd became unruly at times and referee mike rodden took abuse for disallowed goals by maroon players. even nhl president frank calder was a target of some fans for not intervening. the rangers became the second american team to win the cup and the first nhl american team
to do so.

playoff bracket.


nhl awards.


see also.
list of stanley cup champions;
ice hockey at the 1928 winter olympics;
prairie hockey league;
list of pre-nhl seasons;
1927 in sports;
1928 in sports;

references.
hockey database;
nhl.com;






</doc>
<doc id="1793022" title="max yellow line" nonfiltered="232" processed="230" dbindex="232">


the max yellow line is a 5.8 mile (9.3 km) (not including segments downtown shared with other lines) light rail route in the metropolitan area express light rail system in portland, oregon. the route, which opened may 1, 2004, runs between downtown portland and the portland expo center. it is also known as the interstate max because the majority of the line runs along interstate avenue in north portland.

the yellow line is the newest max line. originally, it was conceived as part of a north-south light rail project between vancouver, washington and milwaukie to be built using city funds, but that plan was rejected by voters. trimet then learned that a majority of the residents of north portland had voted in favor of the original plan, so they decided to build this new line without using city funds. to do this, they convinced the city of portland to create an urban renewal district along the proposed line, which made them eligible for matching federal funds with which they could finance the construction of the max line. the project was finished four months ahead of schedule at a budget of $320 million usd $25 million usd under budget. the presence of the line has also caused a great deal of redevelopment along its corridor.

future plans.
the yellow line will move to the portland transit mall once max tracks are put in there. additionally, there are plans for extensions at both ends, from downtown portland southward to milwaukie as part of the max orange line (which will likely be a yellow line extension), and from the expo center into vancouver, wa via interstate 5 and sr-500.

stations.


nameopening yearinterchangemunicipalityfare zonepark and ride?

max yellow line (portland-expo center)

the route enters a transit mall.

library/southwest 9th avenue (eastbound);galleria/southwest 10th avenue (westbound)
1986
max blue linemax red lineportlandstreetcar
portland
1fareless square
no

pioneer square south (eastbound);pioneer square north (westbound)
1986
max blue linemax red line
portland
1fareless square
no

mall/southwest 4th avenue (eastbound);mall/southwest 5th avenue (westbound)
1986
max blue linemax red line
portland
1fareless square
no

yamhill district (eastbound);morrison/southwest 3rd avenue (westbound)
1986
max blue linemax red line
portland
1fareless square
no

the route exits a transit mall.

oak street/southwest 1st avenue
1986
max blue linemax red line
portland
1fareless square
no

skidmore fountain
1986
max blue linemax red line
portland
1fareless square
no

old town/chinatown
1986
max blue linemax red line
portland
1fareless square
no

interstate/rose quarter
2004

portland
1fareless square
no

albina/mississippi
2004

portland
1
no

overlook park
2004

portland
2
no

north prescott street
2004

portland
2
no

north killingsworth street
2004

portland
2
no

north portland boulevard
2004

portland
2
no

north lombard transit center
2004

portland
2
no

kenton/north denver avenue
2004

portland
2
no

delta park/vanport
2004

portland
2
yes

expo center
2004

portland
2
yes


external links.
trimet homepage;
max homepage at trimet.org;




</doc>
<doc id="7793854" title="rownd a rownd" nonfiltered="233" processed="231" dbindex="233">
rownd a rownd is a television series on s4c. it was originally based on young people with paper rounds, but has since grown to include both their daily school and family life.

the series is filmed in porthaethwy, anglesey. an unrealistic factor about rownd a rownd is that it is filmed in the 
summer months, but the story takes place in the winter months, so it is always daylight in the morning, where darkness is expected.

the longest star of the series is dewi 'pws' morris who has played the character of islwyn morgan, from the start in 1995.






</doc>
<doc id="220230" title="bernardino of siena" nonfiltered="234" processed="232" dbindex="234">


saint bernardino of siena (sometimes bernardine, september 8 1380   may 20, 1444) was an italian preacher, franciscan missionary and christian saint. 

early life.
bernardino was born in 1380 to the noble albizeschi family in massa marittima (tuscany), a sienese town of which his father was then governor. left orphaned at six, he was raised by a pious aunt. on the completion of his education he spent some years in the service of the sick in the hospitals. while he was studying civil and canon law in siena, he worked in the hospital of santa maria della scala throughout the bubonic plague outbreak of 1400 and even urged other young men to stay and help. he thus caught the plague, of which he nearly died.

in 1402 or 1404, he joined the franciscan order in the strict branch called observant, of which he became one of the chief promoters, after donating all his possessions to the poor. about 1406 saint vincent ferrer, while preaching at alessandria in piedmont, foretold that his mantle should descend upon one who was then listening to him, and said that he would return to france and spain leaving to bernardino the task of evangelizing the remaining peoples of italy. nearly twelve years passed before this prediction was fulfilled. during this period, of which we have no details, bernardino seems to have lived in retirement in the convent on the hill of capriola, near siena.

he was reported to "cure" a sienese prostitute by striking her and "driving the demon" from her body. he then moved on to preach at milan in 1418 (1417 according to other sources) before traveling to perform evangelical preaching in neighbouring cities in the next four years.

work.
for more than 30 years bernardino preached all over italy, and played a great part in the religious revival of the early fifteenth century. his success was claimed to be remarkable. enormous crowds came to hear him speak. it was said that feuds and factionalism were reconciled by his counsel and that miracles took place. donations to the holy name of jesus (which he preached particularly) increased dramatically. furthermore, "bonfires of vanities" were held at his sermon sites, where people were encouraged to burn objects of temptation. in 1425, he preached every day for seven weeks in siena.

in 1427 he was summoned to rome to stand trial on charges of heresy, with theologians including paulus venetus present to give their opinions. bernardino was found innocent of heresy, and he impressed pope martin v sufficiently that martin requested he preach in rome. he was acquitted and thereupon preached every day for 80 days. a typical sermon, would last for an hour long, but some lasted for more than four. bernardino's zeal was such that he would prepare up to four drafts of a sermon before starting to speak. that same year, he was offered and declined the bishopric of siena in order to maintain his monastic and evangelical activities. in 1431, he toured tuscany, lombardy, romagna, and ancona before returning to siena to prevent a war against florence. also in 1431, he declined the bishopric of ferrara, and in 1435 he declined the bishopric of urbino.

saint john capistran was his friend, and saint james of the marches was his disciple during these years. both pope martin v and pope eugene iv were urged by their cardinals to condemn bernardino, but both almost instantly acquitted him. the holy roman emperor sigismund sought bernardino's counsel and intercession and the future saint accompanied him to rome in 1433 for his coronation. 

soon after he withdrew again to capriola to compose a series of sermons. he resumed his missionary labours in 1436, but was forced to abandon them in the following year, when he became vicar-general of the observant branch of the franciscans in italy. in 1438, bernardino was elevated to vicar-general of the franciscan order in italy. this cut back his opportunities to preach, but he continued to speak to the public when he could. having in 1442 persuaded the pope to accept his resignation as vicar-general so that he might give himself more undividedly to preaching, bernardino resumed his missionary labours. despite a papal bull issued by eugene iv in 1443 and which charged bernardino to preach the indulgence for the crusade against the turks, there is no record of his having done so. in 1444, notwithstanding his increasing infirmities, bernardino, desirous that there should be no part of italy which had not heard his voice, set out to the kingdom of naples. he died that year at aquila, in the abruzzi. according to the tradition, his grave continued to leak blood until two factions of the city achieved reconciliation.

reports of miracles attributed to bernardino multiplied rapidly and bernardino was canonized in 1450, only six years after his death, by pope nicholas v. his feast day in the roman catholic church is may 20, day of his death.

attacks on sodomy.
bernardino attacked the sodomitical customs of the italians in his sermons, among which one pointing out the reputation of the italians beyond their own borders: 
o italia, quanto ne se' contaminata pi\f9 che altra provincia ! va' a tedeschi, e ode che bello vanto e' danno a' taliani! dicono che non \e8 generazione al mondo, che sieno maggiori sodomitti che italiani.
which can be translated as: "o, italy, how much more than any other province have you become contaminated! go to the germans, and hear what lovely things they say about the italians! they say there is no people in this world that are greater sodomites than the italians." ("abominabile peccato della maladetta soddomia". prediche volgari sul campo di siena. 1427 vol. 2, milan, p. 1149). the practices had been blamed for "divine" misfortunes, like the plague, and some in the clergy hoped that catastrophes could be averted by restricting practices they blamed as immoral.


work for the order and the spreading of the observants.
bernardino laboured strenuously to spread the observant branch of the friars minor from the outset of his religious life: but, contrary to what is sometimes stated, he was not its founder. (the origin of the observants, or zelanti, may be traced back to the middle of the fourteenth century.) nevertheless, bernardine became to the observants what st. bernard had been to the cistercians, their principal support and indefatigable propagator. some idea of his zeal may be gathered from the fact that, instead of the one hundred and thirty friars constituting the observance in italy at bernardino 's reception into the order, it counted over four thousand before his death. 

in addition to the number he received into the order, bernardino himself founded, or reformed, at least three hundred convents of friars. not content with extending his religious family at home, bernardino sent missionaries to different parts of the orient and it was largely through his efforts that so many ambassadors from different schismatical nations attended the council of florence in which we find the saint addressing the assembled fathers in greek. 

iconography.
after his death, the franciscans promoted an iconographical program of diffusion of images of bernardino, which was second only to that of the founder of the order. he is typically represented in painting with three mitres at his feet (representing the three bishoprics which he had rejected) and holding in his hand the ihs monogram with rays emanating from it (representing his devotion to the "holy name of jesus"). 

a portrait is known to have circulated in siena just after bernardino s death which, on the basis of physiognomic similarities with his death mask at l'aquila (the bald head and emaciated face), is believed to have been a good likeness. it is thought probable that many subsequent depictions of the saint derive from this portrait.

the most famous, and perhaps most highly appreciated, depictions of bernardino are found in the cycle of frescoes of his life executed towards the end of the fifteenth century by pinturicchio in the bufalini chapel of santa maria in aracoeli, rome.

patron.
saint bernardino is the patron saint of advertising, communications, compulsive gambling, respiratory problems, the city carpi (italy), and the diocese of san bernardino, california.

legacy.
in the 15th century, the catholic church began to respond to the pressures both of the multiple heresies that had spread throughout southern france and northern italy and the challenge of protestantism. as martin luther emphasized the direct participation of the laity in the divine and the importance of the sermon, the monastic orders, in particular, reformed. instead of remaining cloistered and speaking only the liturgy, some, like bernardino of siena, attempted to preach directly to the public. the effect was both to stem the inroads of protestant evangelism and to make the populace more aware of orthodox dogma. the first edition of his works, for the most part elaborate sermons, was printed at lyon in 1501.



references.
;
;

















</doc>
<doc id="7352591" title="walter the wobot" nonfiltered="235" processed="233" dbindex="235">
walter is a fictional character from the judge dredd comic strip in british comic 2000 ad.

walter was judge dredd's house robot. he is usually used in stories to provide comic relief, and he has a speech impediment which causes him to pronounce his r's as w's. he was made a free robot with the rights of a human citizen in 2099 for his loyal services during the first robot war. however he was so devoted to dredd that he chose to remain in dredd's employ, until he sustained serious damage at the hands of mean machine angel. this was an effort by the writers to kill him off when judge dredd stories were becoming grittier and more mature. however, the character was brought back by john wagner several years later.

in 2116 walter attempted to lead a second robot war, and actually shot dredd to punish him for dredd's harsh treatment of him over the years. arrested by rookie judge giant and sentenced to thirty years, he was paroled by dredd in 2122 and now lives with mrs gunderson.

appearances.

as well as numerous appearances in judge dredd, in 1978 walter had his own eponymous comedy series (one-page episodes), in 2000 ad progs 50-61, 67-68, and 84-85.

external links.

2000 ad profile;







</doc>
<doc id="1208384" title="marie rambert" nonfiltered="236" processed="234" dbindex="236">
dame marie rambert (february 20, 1888   june 12, 1982) was a polish-jewish dancer and dance pedagogue who exerted a great influence on british ballet, both as a dancer and teacher. 

born cyvia or miriam ramberg in warsaw, poland, she also used a number of other names, including rambach, rambam.  between 1912 and 1913 she collaborated with les ballets russes led by sergei diaghilev. in 1918 she moved to the united kingdom, where in 1920 she founded her own ballet school. in 1926 she created her own ballet company called marie rambert dancers. currently named ballet rambert, it is the oldest still active ballet company on british isles. 

she cooperated in millicent hodson to restore nijinsky's choreography of "the rite of spring" in 1979. the restoration of choreography was completed in 1987.

bibliography.
 ;
 ;
















;

</doc>
<doc id="7095021" title="miniature deck" nonfiltered="237" processed="235" dbindex="237">

a miniature deck is about half the size of a standard card deck -- measuring 1.75 inches wide by 2.5 inches tall. 

because of their small size, they are difficult to shuffle and generally only collected as a novelty item or used in card tricks such as the "vanishing card" routine.



</doc>
<doc id="58088" title="sakhalin" nonfiltered="238" processed="236" dbindex="238">


sakhalin (, ; japanese:  or ); chinese:   ; also saghalien, is a large elongated island in the north pacific, lying between 45\b050' and 54\b024' n.  it is part of russia and is its largest island, administered as part of sakhalin oblast.  southern sakhalin, the kuril islands, and northern japan were the indigenous lands of the ainu peoples before they were displaced by force.

the european names derived from misinterpretation of a manchu name sahaliyan ula angga hada (peak of the mouth of amur river). sahaliyan means black in manchu and refers to amur river (sahaliyan ula).  its japanese name, karafuto () comes from ainu kamuy-kara-puto-ya-mosir (kara puto), which means "god of mouth of water land".  the name was restored to the island by the japanese during their possession of its southern part (1905-1945).

history.
sakhalin was inhabited in the neolithic stone age. flint implements, like those found in siberia, have been found at dui and kusunai in great numbers, as well as polished stone hatchets, like european examples, primitive pottery with decorations like those of the olonets, and stone weights for nets.  afterwards a population to whom bronze was known left traces in earthen walls and kitchen-middens on the aniva bay.

among the indigenous people of sakhalin are the ainu and the nivkh, as well as others.  chinese chronicled the xianbei and hezhe tribes, who had a way of life based on fishing.  the chinese in the ming dynasty knew the island as kuyi (), and later as kuye ().  for a short period (1409-1435) kuye was under the administration of  set up by the ming dynasty and a ming boundary stone still exists on the island.  according to wei yuan's work military history of the qing dynasty (), the later jin sent 400 troops to sakhalin in 1616, after a newfound interest because of northern japanese contacts with the area, but later withdrew as it was considered there was no threat from the island.

a japanese settlement in the southern end of sakhalin of ootomari was established in 1679 in a colonialization attempt.  cartographers of the matsumae clan created a map of the island and called it "kita-ezo" (northern ezo, ezo is the old name of hokkaid ).  the 1686 nerchinsk treaty between russia and china, which defined the stanovoy mountains as the border, made no explicit mention of the island.  nevertheless russia started occupying the island, with an army made up of convicts, from the 18th century onwards.  the qing empire also claimed sovereignty over the island.  however, as the chinese governments did not have a military presence on the island, people from both japan and russia attempted to colonise the island, albeit from different ends.

sakhalin became known to europeans from the travels of ivan moskvitin and martin gerritz de vries in the 17th century, and still better from those of jean-fran\e7ois de la p\e9rouse (1787) and ivan krusenstern (1805).  both, however, regarded it as a peninsula, and were unaware of the existence of the mamiya strait or strait of tartary, which was discovered in 1809 by mamiya rinzo.

on the basis of it being an extension of hokkaid , geographically and culturally, japan unilaterally proclaimed sovereignty over the whole island in 1845, as well as the kuril islands, as there were competing claims from russia.  however, the russian navigator gennady nevelskoy in 1849 definitively recorded the existence and navigability of this strait and - in defiance of the qing and japanese claims; russian settlers established coal mines, administration facilities, schools, prisons, churches on the island.  

in 1855, russia and japan signed the treaty of shimoda, which declared that both nationals could inhabit the island: russians in the north, and japanese in the south, without a clear boundary between.  russia also agreed to dismantle its military base at ootomari.  following the opium war, russia forced the qing to sign the unequal treaty of aigun and convention of peking, under which china lost claim to all territories north of heilongjiang (amur) and east of ussuri, including sakhalin, to russia.   a katorga (penal colony) was established by russia on sakhalin in 1857, but the southern part of the island was held by the japanese until the 1875 treaty of saint petersburg, when they ceded it to russia in exchange for the kuril islands.  after the russo-japanese war, russia and japan signed the treaty of portsmouth of 1905, which resulted in the southern part of the island below 50\b0 n reverting to japan; the russians retained the other three-fifths of the area.  south sakhalin was administrated by japan as karafuto-ch  (   ), with the capital toyohara, today's yuzhno-sakhalinsk, and had quite a large number of migrants from japan and korea.

in august 1945, according to yalta conference agreements, the soviet union took over the control of sakhalin.  the soviet attack on south sakhalin started on 11 august 1945, as a part of operation august storm, four days before the surrender of japan, after the bombing of hiroshima.  the 56th rifle corps consisting of the 79th rifle division, the 2nd rifle brigade, the 5th rifle brigade and the 214 armored brigade attacked the japanese 88th division.  although the red army outnumbered the japanese by a factor of three, they were unable to advance due to strong japanese resistance.  (japan had quite a presence here, and developed much infrastructure.)  it was not until the 113th rifle brigade and the 365th independent naval infantry rifle battalion from sovietskaya gavan (                ) landed on t r  ( " ), a seashore village of western sakhalin on 16 august, that the soviets broke the japanese defence line.  japanese resistance grew weaker after this landing.  actual fighting, mostly petty skirmishes, continued until 21 august.  from 22 august to 23 august, most of the remaining japanese units announced a truce.  the soviets completed the conquest of sakhalin on 25 august 1945 by occupying the capital, toyohara.  japanese sources claim that 20,000 civilians were killed during the invasion.

no final peace treaty has been signed and the status of four neighbouring islands remains disputed.  japan renounced its claims of sovereignty over southern sakhalin and the kuril islands in the treaty of san francisco (1951), but claims that four islands currently administered by russia were not subject to this renunciation.  however, japan has granted mutual exchange visas for japanese and ainu families divided due to russian occupation.  recently, economic and political cooperation has gradually improved between the two nations in spite of it.

korean air flight 007, a south korean civilian airliner, flew over sakhalin and was shot down just west of the island by the soviet union on 1 september 1983, killing all 269 passengers and crew.

on may 28 1995, an earthquake measuring 7.5 on the richter scale occurred, killing 2,000 people in the town of neftegorsk.

geography.
sakhalin is separated from the mainland by the narrow and shallow mamiya strait or strait of tartary, which often freezes in winter in its narrower part, and from hokkaid  (japan) by the soya strait or strait of la p\e9rouse. sakhalin is the largest island of russia, being 948 km (589 miles) long, and 25 to 170 km (16 to 105 miles) wide, with an area of 78,000 km\b2 (30,100 mi\b2).

its orography and geological structure are imperfectly known. nearly two-thirds of sakhalin is mountainous. two parallel ranges of mountains traverse it from north to south, reaching 600 1500 m (2000 5000 ft). the western sakhalin mountains peak in mount ichara, 1481 m (4860 ft), while the eastern sakhalin mountains's highest peak is mount lopatin 1609 m (5279 ft) is also the island's highest mountain. tym-poronaiskaya valley separates the two ranges. susuanaisky and tonino-anivsky ranges traverse the island in the south, while the swampy northern-sakhalin plain occupies most of its north.

crystalline rocks crop out at several capes; cretaceous limestones, containing an abundant and specific fauna of gigantic ammonites, occur at dui on the west coast, and tertiary conglomerates, sandstones, marls and clays, folded by subsequent upheavals, in many parts of the island. the clays, which contain layers of good coal and an abundant fossil vegetation, show that during the miocene period sakhalin formed part of a continent which comprised north asia, alaska and japan, and enjoyed a comparatively warm climate. the pliocene deposits contain a mollusc fauna more arctic than that which exists at the present time, indicating probably that the connection between the pacific and arctic oceans was broader than it is now.

main rivers: the tym, 400 km (250 miles) long and navigable by rafts and light boats for 80 km (50 miles), flows north and north-east with numerous rapids and shallows, and enters the sea of okhotsk. the poronai flows south-south-east to the gulf of patience or shichiro bay, on the south-east coast. three other small streams enter the wide semicircular gulf of aniva or higashifushimi bay at the southern extremity of the island.

demographics.
at the beginning of the 20th century, some 32,000 russians (of whom over 22,150 were convicts) inhabited sakhalin along with several thousand native inhabitants. the island's population has grown to 673,100 today, 83 percent of whom are ethnic russians and followed by koreans at about 30,000 (5.5%). the native inhabitants consist of some 2,000 nivkhs, 750 oroks, 200 evenks and some yakuts. the nivkhs in the north support themselves by fishing and hunting.

the capital yuzhno-sakhalinsk, a city of about 200,000, has a large korean minority, typically referred to as sakhalin koreans, who were forcibly brought by the japanese during world war ii to work in the coal mines. most of the population lives in the southern half of the island, centered mainly around yuzhno-sakhalinsk and two ports, kholmsk and korsakov (population 50,000 each).

the 400,000 japanese inhabitants of sakhalin were deported following the conquest of the southern portion of the island by the soviet union in 1945 at the end of world war ii.

climate.
owing to the influence of the raw, foggy sea of okhotsk, the climate is very cold. at dui the average yearly temperature is only 0.5 \b0c (january -15.9 \b0c; july 16.1 \b0c), 1.7 \b0c at kusunai and 3.1 \b0c at aniva (january,  12.5 \b0c; july, 15.7 \b0c). at alexandrovsk-sakhalinsky near dui the annual range is from 27 \b0c in july to  39 \b0c in january, while at rykovsk in the interior the minimum is  45 \b0c. the rainfall averages 570 mm. thick clouds for the most part shut out the sun; while the cold current from the sea of okhotsk, aided by north-east winds, brings immense ice-floes to the east coast in summer.

flora and fauna.
the whole of the island is covered with dense forests, mostly coniferous. the yezo (or yeddo) spruce (picea jezoensis), the sakhalin fir (abies sachalinsis) and the dahurian larch (larix gmelinii) are the chief trees; on the upper parts of the mountains are the siberian dwarf pine (pinus pumila) and the kurile bamboo (arundinaria kurilei). birches, both siberian silver birch (betula platyphylla) and erman's birch (b. ermanii), poplar, elm, bird cherry (prunus padus), japanese yew (taxus cuspidata) and several willows are mixed with the conifers; while farther south the maple, rowan and oak, as also the japanese panax ricinifolium, the amur cork tree (phellodendron amurense), the spindle (euonymus macropterus) and the vine (vitis thunbergii) make their appearance. the underwoods abound in berry-bearing plants (e.g. cloudberry, cranberry, crowberry, red whortleberry), red-berried elder (sambucus racemosa), wild raspberry and spiraea.

bears, foxes, otters and sables are numerous, as also the reindeer in the north, and the musk deer, hares, squirrels, rats and mice everywhere. the bird fauna is mostly the common east siberian, but there are some endemic or near-endemic breeding species, notably the endangered spotted greenshank (tringa guttifer) and the sakhalin leaf warbler (phylloscopus borealoides). the rivers swarm with fish, especially species of salmon (oncorhynchus). numerous whales visit the sea-coast.

transport.
transport, especially by sea, is an important segment of the economy. nearly all the cargo arriving for sakhalin (and the kuril islands) is delivered by cargo boats, or by ferries, in railway wagons, through a sea ferry passage at vanino-kholmsk. the ports of korsakov and kholmsk are the largest and handle all kinds of goods, while coal and timber shipments often go through other ports. in 1999, a ferry service was opened between the ports of korsakov and wakkanai, japan.

about 30% of all inland transport volume is realized through railways. sakhalin has railway lines stretching from nogliki in the north to korsakov in the south. there is also a departmental narrow-gauge line at nogliki-okha, extending 228 km. with the existence of a ferry serving vanino-kholmsk, sakhalin has railway connection with the railway network of the rest of russia.

sakhalin is connected by regular flights to moscow, khabarovsk, vladivostok, and other cities of russia. the airport of yuzhno-sakhalinsk has regularly scheduled international flights to hakodate, japan and seoul and busan, korea. there are also charter flights to the japanese cities of tokyo, niigata, and sapporo and the chinese cities of shanghai, dalian, and harbin.  the city was formerly served by alaska airlines from anchorage, petropavlovsk and magadan.

the idea of building a fixed link between sakhalin and the russian mainland was first mooted in the 1930s.  in the 1940s, an abortive attempt was made to link the island via a 10 km long undersea tunnel.  the workers supposedly made it almost to the half-way point before the project was abandoned under nikita khrushchev.  in 2000, the russian government revived the idea, adding a suggestion that a 40 km long bridge could be constructed between sakhalin and the japanese island of hokkaid , providing japan with a direct connection to the euro-asian railway network.  it was claimed that construction work could begin as early as 2001.  the idea was received skeptically by the japanese government and appears to have been shelved, probably permanently, after the cost was estimated at as much as us$50 billion.

economy.
sakhalin is a classic "resource economy" relying on oil and gas exports, coal mining, forestry, and fishing. there are also some coal deposits and limited quantities of rye, wheat, oats, barley and vegetables are grown, although the growing season averages less than 100 days.

following the collapse of the soviet union and economic liberalization, sakhalin has experienced an oil  with extensive petroleum exploration and mining by most large oil multinationals. the oil and natural gas reserves contain an estimated 14 billion barrels (2.2 km\b3) of oil and 96 trillion cubic feet (2,700 km\b3) of gas and are being developed under production-sharing agreement contracts involving international oil comapnies like exxonmobil and shell.

in 1996, two large consortiums signed contracts (pipeline lock-ins) to explore for oil and gas off the northeast coast of the island, sakhalin-i and sakhalin-ii. the two consortia were estimated to spend a combined $21 billion u.s. dollars on the two projects which almost doubled to $37 billion as of september 2006, triggering russian governmental opposition. this will include an estimated $1 billion (us) to upgrade the islands infrastructure: roads, bridges, waste management sites, airports, railways, communications systems, and ports. in addition, sakhalin-iii-through-vi are in various early stages of development.

the sakhalin i project, managed by exxon neftgas limited (enl), completed a production-sharing agreement (psa) between the sakhalin i consortium, the russian federation, and the sakhalin government. russia is in the process of building a 136 mile (219 km) pipeline across the tatar strait from sakhalin island to de-kastri on the russian mainland. from de-kastri it will be loaded onto tankers for transport to east asian markets, namely japan, south korea, and china.

the second consortium, sakhalin energy investment company ltd. (sakhalin energy) is managing the sakhalin ii project. they completed the first ever production-sharing agreement (psa) with the russian federation. sakhalin energy will build two 800 km pipelines running from the northeast of the island to prigorodnoye (prigorodnoe) in aniva bay at the southern end. the consortium will also build, at prigorodnoye, the first ever liquefied natural gas (lng) plant to be built in russia. the oil and gas is also bound for east asian markets. 

sakhalin ii has come under fire from environmental groups, namely sakhalin environment watch, for dumping dredging material in aniva bay. the groups were also worried about the offshore pipelines interfering with the migration of whales off the island. the consortium has (as of jan 2006) re-routed the pipeline to avoid the whale migration.  after a doubling in the projected cost, the russian government threatened to halt the project for environmental reasons.  there have been suggestions that the russian government is using the environmental issues as a pretext for obtaining a greater share of revenues from the project and/or forcing involvement by the state-controlled gazprom. the cost overruns (at least partly due to shell's response to environmental concerns), are reducing the share of profits flowing to the russian treasury. 

in 2000, the oil and gas industry accounted for 57.5% of sakhalin's industrial output.  by 2006, it is expected to account for 80% of the island's industrial output.  sakhalin's economy is growing rapidly thanks to its oil and gas industry.  by 2005, the island had become the largest recipient of foreign investment in russia, followed by moscow.  unemployment in 2002 was only 2%.  however, all of the oil and gas is for export and none is available to the island's population.

see also.
russian far east;
bronislaw pilsudski;
sakhalin husky;
gig harbor, sister city.

external links.

sakhalin 2 project, ecological problems;
the sakhalin times (weekly english language newspaper published in yuzhno sakhalinsk);
map of the sakhalin hydrocarbon region at blackbourn geoconsulting;
transglobal highway - proposed sakhalin-hokkaid  friendship tunnel.;
photos of sakhalin @ flickr;
sakhalin snowboarding community;
"the sakhalin ii phase 2 project the new energy source for the asia pacific: transforming the vision into reality" presentation by david j. greer          .      , obe eur. ing., c. eng., fimeche, sakhalin ii deputy ceo/project director, sakhalin energy investment company ltd. to scottish oil club, october 2005.
russia - to be feared... for now (analysis of sakhalin ii project in context of russian policy);

references.
 c. h. hawes, in the uttermost east (london, 1903). (p. a. k.; j. t. be.);
a journey to sakhalin (1895), by anton chekhov, including:
saghalien sakhalin island (1891-1895);
across siberia;




































</doc>
<doc id="8638368" title="clonbrook" nonfiltered="239" processed="237" dbindex="239">


clonbrook is a village in the demerara-mahaica region of guyana. the village itself has a population of about 1,000-2,000. the village is located along the east coast highway and is about 20 miles from georgetown and about 4 miles from mahaica. it also consists of the village of bee hive.

 demographics .
historically, clonbrook was almost 100% indo-guyanese, but today, that has changed due to migration within the country.  the village of clonbrook has a population of about 1,000 and most residents are of indian descent (indo-guyanese), however in recent years substantial black migration has occurred.  as a result of migration, many new houses have been constructed near the public road, also known as the east coast highway.  like many other guyanese villages, clonbrook is somewhat ethnically segregated:  some sections have a black majority, while others have an indian majority.  this village is well known for having friendly people, and racial disturbances do not occur.

 education .
clonbrook has one school.  however, during the 1960s and 1970s many residents did not take their education seriously, resulting in a literacy rate of only 84%, below the national average of 98%. (source: random survey of 100 random people conducted in 2005).

 sources .
this article was put together based on information from surveys as well as interviews from various residents, all information is 100% correct and it stated from a neutral point of view.

 see also .
demerara-mahaica;
georgetown, guyana;
indo-guyanese;
afro-guyanese;







</doc>
<doc id="3538255" title="directive 2001/19/ec" nonfiltered="240" processed="238" dbindex="240">
the directive 2001/19/ec  of the european parliament and of the council of 14 may 2001 controls the general system for the recognition of professional qualifications of nurses responsible for general care, dental practitioners, veterinary surgeons, midwives, architects, pharmacists and doctors in the european union.  

the directive 2001/19/ec amends council directives 89/48/ec and 92/51/ec on the general system for the recognition of professional qualifications and council directives 77/452/ec, 77/453/ec, 78/686/ec, 78/697/ec, 78/1026/ec, 80/154/ec, 80/155/ec, 85/384/ec, 85/432, 85/433/ec and 93/16/ec concerning the above mentioned professions.

the general system directives permit the host member state to require, subject to certain conditions, to take compensation steps, notably where substantial differences exist between the theoretical and/or practical education and training undergone and that covered by the qualification required in the host member state.

the directive 2001/19/ec is published on the official journal of the european communities l 205, 31.07.2001.

external links.
the eu;
 


</doc>
<doc id="1145922" title="washington crossing the delaware" nonfiltered="241" processed="239" dbindex="241">
this article is about the painting.  for the poem, see washington crossing the delaware (sonnet).;


washington crossing the delaware is an 1851 oil-on-canvas painting by emanuel leutze. it is in commemoration of washington's crossing of the delaware on december 25, 1776, during the american revolutionary war, the first move in a surprise attack against the hessian forces at trenton, new jersey in the battle of trenton. 

as of 2004, it is part of the permanent collection of the metropolitan museum of art.

history.
german-born emanuel leutze grew up in america, then returned to germany as an adult, where he conceived of the idea for this painting during the revolutions of 1848. hoping to encourage europe's liberal reformers through the example of the american revolution, and using american tourists and art students as models and assistants, leutze finished the first painting in 1850. just after it was completed, the first version was damaged by fire in his studio, subsequently restored, and acquired by the kunsthalle bremen. in 1942, during the second world war, it was destroyed in a bombing raid by the british royal air force (which has led to a persistent joke that the raid was britain's final retaliation for the american revolution).

the second painting, a full-sized copy of the first, was begun in 1850 and placed on exhibition in new york in october 1851. more than 50,000 people viewed it, including an 8-year-old henry james, who later recalled that he "gaped responsive at every item" in "the epoch-making masterpiece." it was originally bought by marshall o. roberts for $10,000 (at the time, an enormous sum). after changing ownership several times, it was finally donated to the metropolitan museum of art in 1897. it remains on exhibition there as of 2007.

in january 2003, the painting was defaced when a former metropolitan museum of art guard glued a picture of the september 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to it. no permanent damage was caused. 

another duplicate painting or an exact replica hangs in the lobby of the west wing of the white house.

composition.


the painting is notable for its artistic composition. washington is emphasized by an unnaturally bright sky, while his face catches the upcoming sun. the colors consist of mostly dark tones, as is to be expected at dawn, but there are red highlights repeated throughout the painting. foreshortening, perspective and the distant boats all lend depth to the painting and emphasize the boat carrying washington.

the people in the boat represent a cross-section of the american colonies, including a man in a scottish bonnet and a man of african descent facing backward next to each other in the front, western riflemen at the bow and stern, two farmers in broad-brimmed hats near the back (one with bandaged head), and an androgynous rower in a red shirt, possibly meant to be a woman in man's clothing.

the man standing next to washington and holding the flag is lieutenant james monroe, future president of the united states.

historical inaccuracy.
the painting contains an often-discussed historical inaccuracy: the flag borne in the painting is an anachronism.

the flag depicted is the original flag of the united states (the "stars and stripes") of which the design did not exist at the time of washington's crossing. the flag's design was specified in the june 14, 1777 flag resolution of the second continental congress, and flew for the first time on september 3, 1777 well after washington's crossing in 1776. the historically accurate flag would have been the grand union flag, officially hoisted by washington himself on january 2, 1776 at cambridge, massachusetts, as the standard of the continental army and the first national flag.

artistic concerns motivated further deviations from historical (and physical) accuracy.  for example, the boat (of the wrong model) looks too small to carry all occupants and stay afloat, but this emphasizes the struggle of the rowing soldiers. there are phantom light sources besides the upcoming sun, as can be seen on the face of the front rower and shadows on the water, to add depth. the crossing took place in the dead of night, so there ought to have been no natural light at all, but this would have made for a very different painting. the river is modeled after the rhine, where ice tends to form in crags as pictured, not in broad sheets as is more common on the delaware. (however, some believe the delaware river really was frozen over as depicted because of a small ice age that was occurring at the time.) finally, washington's stance, obviously intended to depict him in a heroic fashion, would have been very hard to maintain in the stormy conditions of the crossing.  debunkers of the painting's historical accuracy have traditionally said that washington would have been sitting down; historian david hackett fischer has argued, however, that everyone would have been standing up to avoid the icy water in the bottom of the boat (the actual boats used had higher sides).

related artistic works.
washington crossing the delaware (sonnet) is also the title of a 1936 sonnet by david schulman. it refers to the scene in the painting, and is a 14-line rhyming sonnet of which every line is an anagram of the title.


references.




see also.
washington crossing;

further reading.
 david hackett fischer, washington's crossing. oxford university press, 2004. isbn 0-19-517034-2. a detailed military history of george washington's attack on trenton; the introduction offers a close look at leutze's painting.

external links.
 introduction to washington's crossing by david hackett fischer at the oxford university press blog.
errors in the painting from ushistory.org;






</doc>
<doc id="1612159" title="fc rostov" nonfiltered="242" processed="240" dbindex="242">




fc rostov (russian:                 "      ") is a russian football club, from rostov-on-don, in the south of russia.

club.
previous names
\abtraktor\bb (1930-1953)
\abtorpedo\bb (1953-1957)
\abrostselmash\bb (1957-2003)

achievements
6-th place in premier division (1998)
russian cup finalist (2003)
intertoto semifinalist (1999)

address
6a pervoi konnoi armii st.
rostov-na-donu
ru   344029
phone: +7(8632) 52-79-47, +7(8632) 51-95-39
fax: +7(8632) 51-95-39
e-mail: press@fc-rostov.ru

stadium address
33 sholokhov st.
rostov-na-donu
ru   344029
phone/fax: +7(8632) 51-62-97

history of the club.
club was founded in may, 1930 and its name before 1953 was tractor.
almost every fan knows that the first game of rostselmash in championship was in 1953 but very few people know how the club had reached the ussr championship.

the club, named traktor, started in rsfsr's championship in 1950 and played there for 3 seasons.

1950 club started in championship of rsfsr in south zone of azov-don group. the first match was played on may 28th, the last   on september 10th. this season was unlucky for the team, which only in 9th place (out of 10).

1951 the championship's rules were changed. in the rsfsr's championship 100 clubs had to play in 8 zones, each divided into 2 groups a and b. traktor started in group b. by the end of the season it was in first place. the next year traktor was to play in the group a, where the leader was dynamo from rostov.

1952 traktor was the third in its group, which was led by dynamo from rostov and krasnodar. next season team started in ussr championship.

championships of ussr

1953 club started as traktor in class b of ussr championship. in june it got the new name - torpedo.

the first match was played on may 2nd vs dynamo from alma-ata. it was the first victory - 2:1, kruglov scored 2 goals.

1958 club renamed to rostselmash.
the club played in class b until 1964. that year rostselmash was first out of 16 in its zone. then it played in semi-final of zone winners of rsfsr's class b, where it came in second. and in the final round it was the first by playing the additional match for the first place against terek grozny. rostselmash won that match 2:0 (yakovenko scored 2). next season rostselmash started in the second group of class a.

1965 rostselmash played in the 2nd group of the class a for the first time and the season was unlucky. rostov club finished it in the last, 32nd place. only because the number of teams for the next season in group had been increased rostselmash stayed in the class a.

in 1966 some new players were introduced to the club. by the end of the season rostselmash was in 11th place (out of 17).

1970-1974 during these years rostselmash did not take part in the ussr championship. it only played in regional tournaments.

1975 after a break rostselmash returned to ussr championship, which had changed its format. club started in the 3rd zone of the 2nd league (third highest level). after the first half of the season rostselmash was in the 3rd place. but by the end of the championship it was in 8th place.

1985 since the middle of 70's rostselmash's target was to get into the first league. the club was ready to enter this league - it had had own stadium, own sport-school. the gigantic plant with the same name as the club helped the team. rostselmash had long traditions - viktor ponedelnik, master of the sport, played for rostselmash. well-known football players graduated from rostselmash's sport school, among them gennadi matveev, aleksandr shevchenko, veniamin iskra, enver yulgushov, eduard yakovenko, andrian zhila, viktor odintsov, and, in the generation before them, aleksei grigoryev, aleksandr kazakov, nikolai kireyev etc. however, during the next ten years rostselmash could not reach this target. in some years, the club fell only one point short of reaching the first league.

rostselmash was the leader in the 3rd zone of the 2nd league, but always came second. the secret is that it was the most powerful zone in the 2nd league. the clubs that are well-known today played in that zone - rotor volgograd, spartak ordzhonikidze (now alaniya), dynamo stavropol. it was a surprise when rostselmash won the zone in 1985, nobody had believed they could do it before the season. the main leaders were terek grozny and sokol saratov. these teams had good players and they represented rich provinces. in the first half of the championship these teams were defeated by rostselmash, which played away matches. especially surprising result was in grozny, where terek was know for its defence. rostselmash won that match 5:0.

rostselmash has gained momentum that year which they did not lose for the whole championship. they went for 26 straight games without a loss. only in the end of the championship rostselmash lost the match against druzhba in maykop.

the winning of the zone wasn't enough to get into the first league. the tournament of the zone's winners was ahead. the draw was the worst that one can imagine. the opponents were tavriya from simferopol - winner of the ukraine group, the strongest one; zvezda from dzhizak - the club which has already played in the first league for several seasons; the winner of the middle-asian zone, sohibkor from halkabad. two clubs from uzbekistan could stand shoulder to shoulder.

the key to success of winning this tournament was first match of rostselmash vs zvezda. not only the result was surprising - rostselmash had won that match 5:0 - but also the club's game: the players were confident of themselves, in great shape and great athleticism. the next step in the tournament was like the first. rostselmash had won 5 matches of 6 and got into the first league.

head coach of rostselmash v. n. sinau said after all that: "there were no problems as far as players shape and athleticism go. the players are professionals with good quallification. the most important thing was to let them forget about always coming in second place. we repeated to them almost every day: enough sight-seeing in the north caucasus. it is time to fight against more serious clubs such as like pamir & ska, karpati, nistru & daugava, lokomotiv & cska."

rostselmash was a club of attack. this tactic played a great role not only in home but also in away matches in spite of the defence of the opponent.

the first league of ussr championship.

1986 the debut of rostselmash in the first league was successful. the club has been preparing for this in the second league for 11 years. rostselmash also had some new players transferred from ska rostov-na-donu, who had previously played in the premier league, and that helped as well.

rostselmash was in the 7th place and scored 86 goals. that was the most goals scored in the league. if the club scored three goals more, then it would have beaten the record set in 1979 by karpati lvov. next few seasons were like running in place. some leading players left the team, head coach was replaced in 1990.

and then year 1991

it was the best season of rostselmash in ussr championship. the club was in the 4th place. in home matches rostselmash had no losses and conceded only 5 goals. rostselmash fought bravely for promotion almost until the very end of the season. that was the last season of ussr championship. the last club's goal in the soviet period of history was scored on november 5, 1991 by aleksandr usaty in riga, latvia where rostselmash defeated pardaugava 3-0. three days later, on november 8, the club's last soviet game was played in st. petesburg, where rostselmash, represented with its second team, lost 0-6 to zenit.

russian championships

so, year 1992 the first russian championship began on march 29th, 1992. rostselmash was included in group b together with spartak and torpedo from moscow; these clubs had won silver and bronze medals of the last ussr championship; rotor from volgograd, the winner of the first league; asmaral moscow, managed by the famous coach konstantin beskov; lokomotiv from nizhny novgorod, always hard to play against. most of rostselmash's home matches were played at the ska staium. the club's stadium was being reconstructed, and matches could not have been held at it until autumn. because of that, rostselmash has played only the last four home games of the season at its native stadium. among the games played at ska was the first match of the season played against shinnik yaroslavl. that game was not only the first game for rostselmash but also the first game of all russian championships, because of the earlier kick-off time compared to the other cities - 3 pm. the goal which had been scored on the 27th minute of the match by aleksandr tikhonov became the first russian championships goal. that match was the first which rostselmash had won in the highest league - 2:0. the championship that year was played in two stages - first in 2 groups of 8 teams, and then again in 2 groups of 8 teams (four best from each of the groups from the first stage playing against each other and four worst from the first stage), rostselmash took 8th place, it would only be higher than that in 1998 and 1999.

1993 this season was the worst for rostselmash in all of its russian history. one of the reasons was that there had not been enough good players. during the first half of the season several players left the club - klyuchnikov went to finland, balakhnin and styopushkin went to israel, kovtun left for the dynamo moscow. the best forward a. tikhonov was injured. it was impossible to find players who could replace them. but in the second half andreyev, parovin and tatarkin returned and helped the club.
for the first 11 games of the second half rostselmash was on the same level as its opponents, but the most important matches were the two last games of the championship in moscow against spartak and dynamo. rostselmash did not take any points in those matches. rostselmash and ocean had the same number of points, but rostov club had fewer wins. so, it had to start in the first league for the next year.

1994 history was told by the head coach of rostselmash of 1994 enver yulgushov.

what was hard in the season? when in spring we were gathering information about our opponents we had not believed in our success. zenit from st. petesburg was the main club which had been counted as one of two teams to win this championship. besides, chernomorets from novorossiisk   with oleg dolmatov as head coach   was showing good footbal and have already knocked at the door of the highest league. the good team was in saratov   sokol. also asmaral from moscow, luch and ocean from far east. baltika, which was one of the pretenders on the highest league during season, had not been counted such before season.
we had a lot of losts in the club. but the main loss was our goalkeeper evgeny krukov, who had helped a lot. we did not wait for that he would choose another club. we were searching for another good goalkeeper until the second round. then we baught evgeny kurnukhin. we had one more problem. football championship is not only the competition of the clubs but also of the biggest cities. two port-cities were standing for chernomorets and baltika, the aviation gigantiv plant was standing for saratov. our samenamed plant rostselmash refused to help us because of the own problems.
the club had reached its target. the monument should be put on the stadium to the players. the fought in spite of all problems. we had no pessimists in the team. the main slogan was: football   first of all, other things would be later. i think it wasn t occasionally that such players as andrey redkin, sergey dementev, mikhail kupriyanov from moscow, vitaliy papadopulo, alexander vorobjev had come to our club.
i heard that some people were saing that rostselmash hadn t wanted to get into the highest league, that in club there had been a lot of old players, who didn t want to play in highest league. but this old playears were the main force to get into the highest league.
during last two seasons rostselmash fount its game, partners understood each other, the game was with elements of force. this game we shall show next season as our visiting card together with alexander maslov, dmitriy loskov, andrey redkin. but also the old players can make a lot.
we, trainers, had october as double, the 13-th month of the year. the race together with baltika needed a lot of physics and moral forces. also we had to think about future. it was clear, the we had to strength two or three points on the playing field. but what players did we need? did we need players of the first or the highest league? so, the administration of the club had no time for the rest. thanks to the god, that everything overed successfully   we had reached the tops of the russian football!

1995

rostov club had to search for new players again. nobody afraid of the well-known players in the highest league. club got new goalkeeper, who had played for the national team of georgia   akakiy devadze. ulgushov invited three new defenders, who had played in the highest league before. the are golubkin from tolyatti he had played in rostselmash earlier, eshenko from volgograd and player of the spartak moscoe ananko club rented him. sergey andreev who had been the captain of rostselmash changed his title for head coach. the club was on the 14-th place of the 16-th. it was with new and young coach.

1996

alexey gerasimenko, gradilenko, vladislav prudius have entered the club this year. the season was rather lucky. alexander maslov beacme the best forward of the championship.

1997

this season was the year of coming new well-known players. igor khankeev, vladimir savchenko, mikhail kupriyanov and oleg pestryakov has entered the club. but the club lost such players as d. loskov, a. devadze, ageev. durin all the season rostselmash was in the middle of the championship s table.
in this year rostselmash was scored the 200 goal. the most beautiful match was in rostov-na-donu against spartak moscow which rostselmash had lost 3:5. after the score had been 1:4 it became 3:4. only on the last minute spartak scored the 5-th goal.

1998

this season was the best of all russian championships for rostselmash. by the end of it the club had been on the 6-th place. and also were new players   sergey kolotovkin, anatoliy bessmertniy, dmitriy kirichenko. alexey gerasimenko have left rostselmash for dynamo kiev. the first time of all its history rostselmash got the right to play in euro cups   for beginning in intertoto cup.

1999

this season will be remembered for the long time   rostov-na-donu has been visited by juventus turin, italy. rostselmash couldn t defeat this club of corse, but the club had gotten great thanks. for 3 months team played matches on every 3-rd day. everybody knews such results of playing in intertoto cup   uralmash, tekstilshik, kamaz has left the highest division after it. but rostselmash had been on the 7-th place by the end of the championship only five cluns from moscow and alania from vladikavkaz were ahead. even rotor volgograd and torpedo moscow couldn t reach such results after intertoto cup.

2000

only 6 wins, the 12-th position in tournament table and sergey andreev s left   this is the result of the season, which brought only regret. fc rostselmash participated in uefa intertoto cup for the second time and failed to pass through aj auxerre from france.

2001

the debut of sergei balakhnin wasn t lucky. anatoly baydachny, who came on his place, also didn t reach much. the white spot in fc rostselmash was dmitry kirichenko, who scored 13 goals. but he left for psc cska after this season.

2002

the season should be interesting. the administration put the task to get the medals. but the first circle showed than team has a lot of problems. as the result fc rostselmash got finance and moral crisis. the gubernator of rostov region vladimir chub advised ivan savvidi to lead the club. after change of leaders the situation became better. the club had no more financial problems, got two new strong legionaries, returned alexandr maslov to team. sergei balakhnin became the head coach again. the result of the season stayed in the league, but wasn t higher than 12 position for the first time during last 3 seasons.

2003

in 2003 club was renamed in honour of its city and got their best achievement in russia. in russian cup they played in the final, where they played equal with 9-time russian champion spartak moscow. rostov lost 0-1, but one week later they won in chapionship game vs spartak 3-2 proved they had the ability to win cup. on december 9, 2003 balakhnin was sacked. vitaliy shevchenko took his place.

2004

club started this season with bad results. rostov lost 0-4 its starting championship match against torpedo on the home ground. this match was followed by a series of games without a single win. as a result, when on april 14, 2004 rostov lost 0-3 the russian cup game to torpedo-metallurg, shevchenko resigned. two days later club chairman ivan savvidi again appointed balakhnin as head coach. club has occupied 12 places showing bad play, what antipathy to rooters. all were not a complacent president a club. on december 30, 2004 sergey balakhnin was sacked again and replaced by gennady stepushkin, a former rostselmash defender.

2005

again, the club's start in the championship was very poor. in the first 5 games, fc rostov got only one point. on april 18, 2005 the club's official website stated that stepushkin was ill and would be temporarily replaced with paul ashworth, director of sport of the club. in july 2005 ashworth moved to coach skonto riga and was replaced by valeri petrakov who coached fc moskva before that. in the first four games under petrakov rostov took only one point, and he was fired and replaced by sergei balakhnin, who will have his fourth stint as a head coach of the club. some days later, ivan savvidi also resigned as the president.
in the middle of the season it seemed that nothing could save fc rostov from relegation, but after these changes the club's performance improved dramatically. the club signed some good players, who, especially striker maxim buznikin, helped the club to get 19 points in 11 games and to stay away from relegation. buznikin, who scored 8 goals in 10 games, was voted player of the year by rostov supporters.

current squad.
as of 1 september 2006, according to the russian premier league official website.












































external links.
 official website;
 guestbook fans - rostov network maniacs;
 rostov football hoolligans;
news on rostov football club;













</doc>
<doc id="8449942" title="kkns" nonfiltered="243" processed="241" dbindex="243">

kkns-am (1310 khz) is an american radio station licensed to corrales, nm serving the albuquerque metropolitan area. it is owned by el camino communications which had purchased the station from simmons media group in early 2007. it started a new spanish oldies format in january 2007 as "la 1310".  


station history since 1988

kzrq-am hard rock/heavy metal "z-rock" 1988-1992 (moved to 105.1 fm)

kiva-am adult standards 1992-1999

kbtk-am talk "citytalk" 1999-2003

kkns-am news/talk "news source 1310" 2003-2005

kkns-am sports talk  "the ticket"  2005-2007

external links.







</doc>
<doc id="1046291" title="hampden-sydney college" nonfiltered="245" processed="242" dbindex="245">


hampden-sydney college is a liberal arts college for men located in hampden-sydney, virginia.  founded in 1775, hampden-sydney is the 10th oldest college in the united states and one of only four remaining mainstream all-men's liberal arts colleges in the united states (the others are wabash college, deep springs college, and morehouse college).  

for nearly two and a half centuries, hampden-sydney college has been dedicated to the goal of forming  good men and good citizens in an atmosphere of sound learning. 

overview.

hampden-sydney enrolls over 1,100 students from thirty states and several foreign countries.  the college enrolls young men of character and ability who will benefit from a rigorous and traditional liberal arts curriculum.  

the school is one of two remaining traditional all-male colleges. the school's mission is to "form good men and good citizens." as such, hampden-sydney has one of the strictest honor codes of any college or university. upon entering as a student, each man pledges that he will not lie, cheat, steal, nor tolerate those who do while he is a student at hampden-sydney. this simply-worded code of behavior applies to the students lives on or off campus.  though it is strict, the justice system is student-run, allowing for a true trial of peers, adjudicated by a court that is both thorough and compassionate to both the college and their fellow students.

every student must prepare for and take the rhetoric proficiency exam, a three-hour essay that is graded upon coherence of argument, quality of argument, style in which the argument is presented, and grammatical correctness.  to prepare, the college requires each student to pass two rhetoric classes that are usually taken the first two semesters a student is at hampden-sydney. after graduating, many alumni have stated that the the rhetoric program was the most valuable aspect in the hampden-sydney information. indeed, knowing how to write well makes one invaluable to any workplace or organization.

history.

classes at hampden-sydney began in temporary wooden structures on november 10, 1775, on the eve of the american war of independence; this makes hampden-sydney college the nation's 10th oldest college.  the college has been in continuous operation since that date, and despite the difficult and financially-strapped first years resulting from the revolutionary war, the college survived with sufficient viability to be granted a charter by the virginia general assembly in 1783   the oldest private charter in the south.

hampden-sydney college derives its name from john hampden (1594-1643) and algernon sidney (1622-1683).  hampden lost his life in the battle of chalgrove field during the english civil war.  sydney, who wrote discourses concerning government, was beheaded by order of charles ii following a failed attempt to overthrow the king.  the college was founded by alumni and people affiliated with princeton university.  these proponents of religious and civil liberties were much admired by the founders of the college, all of whom were active supporters of the cause of american independence. both patrick henry and james madison were elected trustees in the founding period before classes began.

the college's founder and first president, rev. samuel stanhope smith, was subsequently the president of the college of new jersey, which is currently princeton university. smith hired many faculty members from the college of new jersey.

hampden-sydney became a thriving college in southside virginia. in fact, the college s website states that  in its first fifty years the college prospered and gained the respect of the public and of the educational world.  this led to an expansion of the college. in 1812, the union theological seminary was founded at hampden-sydney college. the seminary was later moved to richmond, va and is currently the union theological seminary & presbyterian school of christian education. in 1838, the medical department of hampden-sydney college founded the medical college of virginia which is now the mcv campus of virginia commonwealth university. during this time, the college constructed new buildings using federal style architecture. this is the style of architecture still used on the campus.

at the onset of the american civil war, hampden-sydney students formed a company in the virginia militia. the hampden-sydney students did not see much action but rather were  captured, and...paroled by general george b. mcclellan on the condition that they return to their studies. 1.

the campus.
the college has expanded from its original small cluster of buildings on 100 acres (0.4 km\b2\b2) to a campus of over 1000 acres (4 km\b2\b2). prior to february 2006, the college owned 660 acres (2.7 km\b2\b2). in february 2006, the college purchased 400 acres (1.6 km\b2\b2) which include a lake and the historic location of the college s founding. the campus is host to numerous federal style buildings. part of the campus has been designated as a national historic preservation zone. the campus has recently undergone major construction and renovation. in 2004 a new fitness center was completed in kirby field house. during the summer of 2005, a new parking lot was constructed behind the alphabet dorms. the original parking lot for the alphabet dorms (directly across college rd.) was torn out and filled in with dirt and grass. 

as of july 2006, the college s new library was halfway through construction. the new library is expected to be open for the fall 2007 semester. as of july 2006, the college is also in the middle of construction of a fieldturf field for the hampden-sydney lacrosse team. the field is scheduled to be completed in august 2006.

lewis c. everett of kilmarnock, virginia, has given hampden-sydney college $2.5 million to construct the lewis c. everett stadium. construction on the 1850-seat facility will begin in november 2006 and will be completed in august 2007. the everett stadium will replace the 40-year-old hundley stadium adjacent to fulton field.

student life.

demographics.

according to the hampden-sydney college website, the student body for 2004-05 is 94.1 percent white, 2.7 percent black, 1.0 percent hispanic, and 1.7 percent asian.  the majority (63%) of the student body is from virginia. the rest come from 35 other states and 10 different countries.  

clubs and organizations.

according to the hampden-sydney college website, there are over 40 clubs on campus. each club is run by the students themselves and the clubs come in a large variety. for example, there are political clubs,  sports clubs, religious clubs, a pep band, and multiple social fraternities. there are also volunteer groups such as the local volunteer fire department. students can also participate in the various publications as well as wwhs-fm, the student run radio station (www.wwhsfm.org).

greek life.

for freshmen rush begins in the first semester and pledging takes place in the spring.  if a freshman chooses not to rush and/or pledge, sophomores and juniors may pledge in the fall or spring.  roughly 33% of the student body is involved in greek life. 

kappa sigma, k ;
sigma alpha epsilon,    ;
phi gamma delta,    ;
kappa alpha order ka;
sigma nu,  n;
beta theta pi,    ;
chi phi,   ;
theta chi,  x;
pi kappa alpha,  ka;
sigma chi,  x;
alpha chi sigma**, ax ;

 **note: for chemistry majors; however hampden-sydney's chapter is unique in that biology and physics majors may also pledge.

housing.

freshmen are required to live in one of three dorms which are set aside for freshmen. these dorms are cushing hall, the carpenter dormitories, and the whitehouse quadrangle. sophomores, juniors, and seniors have the option of living in any of the other dorms that they choose. although an overwhelming majority of students live on campus or in campus owned housing, the school does permit a small portion of students (usually upperclassmen) to live off-campus.

presidents of hampden-sydney college.

samuel stanhope smith,           1775 1779;
john blair smith,              1779 1789;
archibald alexander,           1797 1806;
moses hoge,                    1807 1820;
jonathan peter cushing,         1821 1835;
daniel lynn carroll,            1835 1838;
william maxwell,                1838 1845;
patrick j. sparrow,             1845 1847;
lewis warner green,             1849 1856;
john mayo pleasants atkinson,   1857 1883;
richard mcilwaine,             1883 1904;
james gray mcallister,        1905 1908;
henry tucker graham,           1909 1917;
joseph dupuy eggleston,        1919 1939;
edward graham gammon,          1939 1955;
joseph clarke robert,       1955 1960;
thomas edward gilmer,      1960 1963;
walter taylor reveley ii,   1963 1977;
josiah bunting iii,    1977 1987;
james richard leutze,             1987 1990;
ralph arthur rossum,        1991 1992;
samuel v. wilson,     1992 2000;
walter m. bortz iii,   2000 ;

notable alumni.
john b adams, jr.: business, ceo of the martin agency, class of 1971.
christopher t. apostle: business, svp of sothebys, class of 1985.
william h. armstrong: teacher, author of the newbery medal winning "sounder", class of 1936.
thomas atkinson: third episcopal bishop of north carolina, one of the ten bishops who joined to found the university of the south(sewanee), "instrumental" in the reunification of the episcopal church after the civil war; class of 1825.
george m. bibb: chief justice of kentucky, us senator from kentucky, secretary of the us treasury,  class of 1791.
thomas bocock: the speaker of the confederate house, class of 1838.
rob j. bonaventura: business,  president of laidlaw & company, class of 1983.
raymond b. bottom jr.: business, retired chairman of centennial communications inc./wgnt-tv, class of 1951.
j. robert bray: former execuitve director of the virginia port authority , class of 1960.
john l. brinkley: rhodes scholar, professor hampden-sydney college, class of 1959.
walter e. bundy iv: executive chef of 5-star restaurant lemaire, class of 1990.
james coles bruce: owner of berry hill plantation & 3rd wealthiest man in us, class of 1824.
joseph c. cabell: member of the virginia general assembly, mr. jefferson's "co-adjutor" in founding the university of virginia, class of 1800.
william h. cabell: governor of virginia; class of 1789.
e. rhodes carpenter: founder of the carpenter company, class of 1929.
george b. cartledge jr.: chairman grand home furnishings, class of 1963.
brad cary: business, co-founder and ceo of emigra group, class of 1985.
w. randolph chitwood jr., md: medicine, pioneered robotic cardiac surgery in the us for minimally invasive heart surgery, class of 1968.
robert k. citrone: business, owner of discovery capital management, former portfolio manager at fidelity investments, former fund manager at tiger management corporation, class of 1987.
stephen colbert: comedian, host of the colbert report on comedy central. (studied philosophy for two years before transferring to northwestern university, and graduating in 1986.);
james c. cherry: ceo of mid-atlantic region for wachovia, class of 1973.  ;
richard f. cralle jr.: owner green front furniture, class of 1965.
charles william dabney: president of university of cincinnati, president of university of tennessee; class of 1873.
norwood h. davis, jr.: retired ceo of trigon healthcare, class of 1963.
gene b. dixon jr.: retired ceo of kyanite mining corporation, class of 1965.
joseph dupuy eggleston: president of virginia tech, president of hampden-sydney college; class of 1886.
lewis c. everett: retired vice chairman of wheat first union, class of 1963.
matt eversmann: soldier, experience in mogadishu was basis for character in black hawk down; class of 1988.
michael r. fitzsimmons: founder & ceo delivery agent, class of 1995.
mac freeman: vice president of operations invesco field , class of 1989.
mark m. gambill: former president of wheat first union, class of 1972.
landon c. garland: president of randolph-macon college, president of the university of alabama, and founding chancellor of vanderbilt university; class of 1829.
william branch giles: governor of virginia; class of 1791.
bernard s. groseclose jr.: ceo of the south carolina state ports authority, class of 1975.
h. hiter harris iii: business, co-founder and managing director of harris williams & co, class of 1983.
william henry harrison: 9th president of the united states, class of 1791.
robert v. hatcher: retired ceo of johnson & higgins, class of 1951.
david h. head, jr.: real estate, president of head companies, class of 1993.
eugene hickok: u.s. under secretary of education, acting deputy secretary of education, former secretary of education for pennsylvania, founding member and former chairman of the education leaders council; class of 1972. ;
william hoffman: author, tidewater blood, class of 1949.
robert humphreys: pro baseball player, class of 1958.
thomas m. jackson, jr.: president of the virginia board of education, former member of the virginia house of delegates, class of 1979.
archer jones: author, the art of war in the western world, class of 1949.
maurice a. jones: rhodes scholar, general manager the virginian-pilot, former deputy chief of staff for governor mark warner, class of 1986.
james m. jordan jr.: former campaign manager for presidential candidate john kerry; class of 1983.
ed kelley: business, co-founder of jiffy lube, class of 1976.
john w. kirk iii: ceo of associated asphalt, inc., class of 1972.
john l. kirkpatrick: president of davidson college, class of ~1834.
michael d. knight: author, goodnight, nobody, divining rod, and dogfight & other stories, class of 1992.
drury lacy: president of davidson college, class of ~1823.
peter a. leggett: former vice president, leggett stores, class of 1968.
monte lehmkuler: business, managing director at friedman billings & ramsey , class of 1988.
thomas w. ligon: maryland delegate, u.s. representative, governor of maryland; class of 1830.
john g. macfarlane iii: business, ceo of tudor investment corp and former treasurer and managing director at salomon brothers, class of 1976.
stephen h. martin: author, a witch in the family, class of 1967.  ;
l. white matthews iii: former cfo ecolab, inc, former evp of finance of union pacific corporation, class of 1967. ;
david j. mckittrick: former cfo of gateway 2000, cfo of ethanex energy, inc, class of 1967. ;
john peter mettauer: medicine, first plastic surgeon in us, class of 1807.
thomas m. miller: nfl player and assistant gm of green bay packers, class of 1943.
thomas m. mishoe jr.: former cfo of eskimo  pie  corporation, class of 1974.
michael f. moorman: retired ceo of peebles, inc, class of 1964.
harvey b. morgan: retired pharmacist and member of the virginia house of delegates, class of 1952.
bartow morgan, jr.: ceo of brand banking company, class of 1994.
griff morris: vice president of the national association of recording arts & sciences, class of 1987.
c. cammack morton: real estate developer, ceo of commercial properties development corporation, class of 1973.
charles c. mottley: business, ceo of el capitan precious metals, inc, class of 1956.
chris nicklo: business, vice president of brand management at banana republic, class of 1986.
rod o'connor: ceo of the 2004 democratic national convention, class of 1992.
alphonso o'neil-white: first african-american student, ceo of health-now (bluecross/blueshield of new york state), class of 1972.
john phillips: musician, member of the mamas and the papas, attended but did not graduate, class of ~1956.
sterling price: governor of missouri, major general in confederate army, class of ~1830.
roger atkinson pryor: u.s. representative from virginia, brigadier general csa, justice of the new york supreme court; class of 1845.
w. greyson quarles jr.: retired evp at sas institute, class of 1963.
paul reiber: chief justice of the vermont state supreme court, class of 1970.
frank w. roach: ceo of north america for wolseley plc, class of 1973.
conrad f. sauer iv: ceo of the c.f. sauer company, class of 1972.
francis a. schaeffer: theologian, philosopher, presbyterian pastor; most famous for writings and establishing the l'abri community in switzerland, class of 1935.
john g. scott: ceo of toter inc, class of 1993.
w. sydnor settle: law, retired partner at simpson thatcher & bartlett, class of 1955.
john bunyan shearer: president of davidson college, class of ~1855.
julious  p.  smith jr.: ceo of williams mullen, class of 1965.
hugh r. stallard: retired ceo of bell atlantic of va, class of 1959.
robert strange: us senator from north carolina, author of "eoneguski"(called "the first north carolina novel"), class of 1814.
charles s. stringfellow jr.: business, ceo of brown s automotive group, class of 1970.
john leighton stuart: u.s. ambassador to china, 1946-1949; president, yenching university, beijing, 1919-1946; class of 1896.
skipp sudduth: actor, third watch, ronin, class of 1979.
david l. tashjian: business, managing director of lazard fr\e8res & co., class of 1977.
wayne t. tennent: business, former sr. vice president of human resources, amf bowling worldwide, inc, class of 1967.
warren m. thompson: business, ceo of thompson hospitality corporation, class of 1981.
paul s. trible jr.: former u.s. senator and u.s. representative from virginia, current president of christopher newport university, class of 1968.
russell d. turner: assistant coach of the golden state warriors, class of 1992.
joseph f. viar jr.: former founder and chairman of viar & co, class of 1963.
abraham b. venable: united states representative and senator from virginia, president of the first national bank of virginia;
i. benjamin watson: business, former svp of communications and human resource at sprint corporation, class of 1971.

facts.
patrick henry, believing that  every free state  should promote  useful knowledge amongst its citizens,  helped to create hampden-sydney college in prince edward county.  six of his sons studied there.
 hampden-sydney college is the oldest private charter in the south; the 11th oldest institution of higher education in the nation.
 the college has been in operation under the british, confederate, and united states flags. ;
 hampden-sydney has been in continuous operation since classes began november 10, 1775.
 in the over 230 years of its existence, class has only been canceled twice: for a civil war skirmish on campus, and a hurricane that knocked a tree into a dormitory building. classes were not cancelled fall 2003 during hurricane isabel, although the power was out across campus.
 mentioned in the novel american psycho by bret easton ellis;
 football stadium shown in the film foreign student and documentary shorty.
 preppiest school in america according to lisa birnbach's the official preppy handbook. ;
 student tradition of all men speaking to everyone they meet on campus.
 students receive a copy of "to manner born to manners bread: a hip-pocket guide to etiquette for the hampden-sydney man." ;
 the parent institution of union theological seminary (presbyterian) and the medical college of virginia (now virginia commonwealth university), located in richmond, virginia.
 chapters of phi beta kappa and omicron delta kappa.
 enrollment: 1106;
 most popular majors: economics, history, and political science.
 student-faculty ratio of 11 to 1.
 95% of full professors hold doctorates.
 basketball and lacrosse teams are regular ncaa division iii national tournament contenders.
 half the graduates attend graduate school within five years.
 endowment per student ranks hampden-sydney in the top quarter of colleges and universities in the country.
 union-philanthropic literary society (upls), is the oldest student organization at hampden-sydney college, and the nation's second-oldest literary and debating society still in existence today. the society was established september 22, 1789 and has been in operation since.

the princeton review.

the princeton review ranks hampden-sydney in their list of "best 361 colleges" in the following categories.":



references.


external links.
hampden-sydney college, virginia;
the princeton review's the best 357 colleges;
us news and world report's americas best colleges;







</doc>
<doc id="7193423" title="huining fu" nonfiltered="246" processed="243" dbindex="246">
huining fu was a prefecture in the shangjing region of manchuria . it served as the first superior capital of the jin dynasty (1115-1234) between 1122 to 1234 (and was a secondary capital after 1173) until the capital was moved to yanjing (now beijing) in 1153 by wanyan liang, the fourth emperor of the dynasty, despite opposition from his ministers.

ruins of the city were discovered and excavated at present-day acheng in the heilongjiang province of the people's republic of china. the site of the ruins is a national historic reserve and many of the artifacts found there are on display in nearby harbin.

sources.
"acheng city", harbin government web site. (retrieved september 25, 2006).
"huining, china". planetware, 2006. (retrieved september 26, 2006).
jin hongjui. "the setting of the forbidden city and its protection". chinese association of cultural relics protection. (retrieved september 28, 2006).
lu rucai. "bejing's 850th anniversary as national capital". china today. december 2003. (retrieved september 28, 2006).
theobald, ulrich. "chinese history   jinn dynasty (1115-1234) map and geography". chinaknowledge. 2000. (retrieved september 28, 2006).




</doc>
<doc id="9079398" title="nagavarma i" nonfiltered="247" processed="244" dbindex="247">
nagavarma i was a great jain writer who prospered under the paronage of the ganga kings. he was a  kannada author of romances in the 10th century, notably the classic karnataka kadambari,  pioneering the technique of portraying romantic narratives in the champu form.
 

notes.

external link.
poetry from the courtyard;






 


</doc>
<doc id="3232021" title="brian gibbons" nonfiltered="248" processed="245" dbindex="248">
dr. brian gibbons, assembly member for aberavon (may 1999 - ), was elected welsh assembly government minister for health & social services in 2005. he  worked as a general practitioner in partnership with dr. julian tudor hart, at glyncorrwg in the afan valley, south wales.

 external link .

biography









</doc>
<doc id="7147932" title="castle of antoing" nonfiltered="249" processed="246" dbindex="249">
the castle of antoing is one of belgium most original and well-known castles. it was first mentioned in the 12th century. although the castle dates from the 13th and 15th century, it was redesigned in neo-gothic style in the 19th century by the famous french architect viollet-le-duc (1814-1879). other belgian castles built in such style include faulx-les-tombes and la posterie (in courriere) both about 15km south of namur.

the castle of antoing first belonged to the powerful melun family, then passed in 1634 to the princes de ligne by inheritance. the ligne family also owns the magnificient castle of beloeil in the same province.






</doc>
<doc id="6310617" title="cristine rose" nonfiltered="250" processed="247" dbindex="250">
cristine rose (born january 31, 1951 in lynwood, california, usa) is an american actress. she is a graduate of stanford university. she has also been credited as christine rose. 

her acting roles have included 7th heaven, charmed, , star trek: the next generation, gilmore girls, friends, and most recently as angela petrelli on heroes.  she has also recently played ted's (josh radnor) mother on how i met your mother.

 external links .
 ;
 ;



















</doc>
<doc id="6789650" title="moolaad\e9" nonfiltered="251" processed="248" dbindex="251">
moolaad\e9 is a 2004 african film by senegalese director ousmane semb\e8ne. it addresses the subject of female circumcision, a common practice in most african countries. the film argues strongly against the practice, depicting a village woman, colle, who uses moolaad\e9 (magical protection) to protect a group of girls. she is opposed by the villagers who believe in the necessity of circumcision, which they call 'purification'.

the film is a co-production between companies from several francophone nations: senegal, france, burkina faso, cameroon, morocco and tunisia.

the film won the prix un certain regard and a special mention in the prize of the ecumenical jury at the cannes film festival in 2004.

external links.
;






</doc>
<doc id="4853281" title="el laberinto" nonfiltered="252" processed="249" dbindex="252">

el laberinto (spanish for "the labyrinth") is a 1974 novel by manuel mujica la\ednez.

it purports to tell the story of "gin\e9s de silva", the boy shown holding a torch in the lower left-hand corner of el greco's 1586 painting the burial of count orgaz.

this picaresque bildungsroman presents, with virtuosic gusto, a rich and highly amusing series of pictures from the boy's seville childhood in the 1570s to the old man's death in early colonial argentina in the 1650s. thus it connects, somehow, its author's renaissance-preocupied novels (bomarzo; el unicornio) with which it forms a kind of trilogy, with mujica la\ednez' buenos aires cycle.

as usual with manuel mujica la\ednez, the main love-story in this novel involves a same-sex relationship.




</doc>
<doc id="2951224" title="san rafael airport (california)" nonfiltered="253" processed="250" dbindex="253">







san rafael airport  is a private airstrip in san rafael, california, usa, north of san francisco.  prior permission from the owner is required for landing.

see also.
list of airports in the san francisco bay area;

external links.








</doc>
<doc id="9341242" title="rhamphinion" nonfiltered="254" processed="251" dbindex="254">


rhamphinion (meaning "beak nape"; "beak" is a common part of rhamphorhynchoid names, and the remains of this animal came from the rear of the skull, i.e. "nape") was a genus of pterosaur from the sinemurian-mid pliensbachian-age lower jurassic kayenta formation of northeastern arizona, usa. it is based on mna v 4500, a partial skull including the occipital region, a partial left jugal, a fragment of the lower jaw including two preserved teeth and the impression of a third, and other fragments. at the time, it was the oldest known pterosaur specimen from the western hemisphere. kevin padian, who described it, did not assign it to any family or suborder within pterosauria, but did note that the jugal was unlike that of pterodactyloids, and so may have belonged to a rhamphorhynchoid. a bone from the wing of another pterosaur from the same formation may have also belonged to a rhamphorhynchoid, with a wingspan of about 1.5 m (4.92 ft). peter wellnhofer agreed that a rhamphorhynchid identity was very likely, but david unwin was more hesistant to classify its fragmentary remains in the pterosaurs: from deep time, noting it only as a "possibly valid species of uncertain relationships."

references.


external links.
rhamphinion in the pterosaur database;
rhamphinion in the pterosauria;





</doc>
<doc id="1097907" title="tony steel" nonfiltered="255" processed="252" dbindex="256">
anthony gordon (tony) steel (31 july 1941 - ) is a former new zealand rugby player, politician and educator. 

he was born in greymouth, and played rugby first for his school, christchurch boys' high school, and then for canterbury before finally playing for the all blacks between 1966 and 1968. after retiring from sport due to injury, he took up teaching, first at the brisbane boys' college and then back in new zealand. he eventually became headmaster of hamilton boys' high school. in the 1990 elections, he stood for parliament as a candidate for the national party, defeating labour's bill dillon in the hamilton east electorate. in the 1993 elections, however, he was defeated by labour's dianne yates. he regained the seat in the 1996 elections, and retained it in the 1999 elections, but in the 2002 elections, he was defeated again by dianne yates. having opted not to seek a position on national's party list, steel left parliament.  testament to steel's popularity in the city of hamilton is the fact that he lost what has traditionally been regarded as a bell-weather seat by a mere 600 votes, in an election where the national party was almost destroyed by its lowest polling result in recent history.








</doc>
<doc id="4288527" title="site of nature conservation interest" nonfiltered="256" processed="253" dbindex="257">


'site of nature conservation interest' - in kent can be defined as a locally significant nature conservation site identified by the kent trust for nature conservation.

selection of sites of nature conservation interest (snci) is objective and is normally based upon a
recent survey specifically designed for snci, but selection on the basis of existing, published
information may also occur. the approach is similar to that used for the selection of sites of special scientific interest (sssi), but the thresholds are lower and tailored to the community.

primarily selection is for habitats of inherent wildlife interest, but some sites may be selected for
supporting rare or scarce species of plants or animals outside such habitats.

there is no artificial limit on the number of sites; all sites that meet the guidelines will be included.

the permanency of the site is not a consideration except for heathlands within a forest management system.



</doc>
<doc id="2937727" title="heiderscheid" nonfiltered="257" processed="254" dbindex="258">

heiderscheid (luxembourgish: heischent) is a commune and small town in north-western luxembourg. it is part of the canton of wiltz, which is part of the district of diekirch.  the commune's administrative centre is eschdorf.

as of 2005, the town of heiderscheid, which lies in the centre of the commune, has a population of 393.  other towns within the commune include eschdorf and merscheid.
















</doc>
<doc id="244344" title="margaret smith" nonfiltered="258" processed="255" dbindex="259">
margaret smith may refer to:

 margaret smith court (born 1942), tennis player;
 margaret chase smith (1897 1995), united states senator from maine;
 margaret smith (scottish politician) (born 1961), liberal democrat member of the scottish parliament for edinburgh west;
 margaret smith (poet), american poet and artist ;
 margaret smith (comedian);
 margaret smith (author), wrote muslim women mystics;
 margaret smith (british author) (1891 1964), wrote mostly historical romances;
 maggie smith, actress (harry potter films among many others);



</doc>
<doc id="245439" title="christopher" nonfiltered="259" processed="256" dbindex="260">

christopher is a common english name derived from the ancient greek name             (khristoferos).  the name is frequently translated as "bearer of christ", although a more literal translation would be "bearer of the anointed one."  the constituent parts are         (khristos) which means literally the anointed one and      (fero) meaning to carry. the word khristos was used to translate the hebrew word          (), that is messiah, and thus took on its current meaning. see the article on christ for more information.

the truncations chris, christo, christoph, and christy are also used as names.  nicknames derived from christopher include chris, pher (pronounced fur), kit, kester, topher.

famous christophers.
in art:
christo and jeanne-claude artists famous for their 'wrapping' up or iconic places or items;

in exploration:

kit carson, american frontiersman;
christopher columbus, explorer and trader;

in fiction:

christopher boone, narrator of the curious incident of the dog in the night-time;
christopher pike, character in the fictional star trek universe;
christopher robin (winnie the pooh), character in the winnie-the-pooh stories;
christopher thorndyke, a fictional character is the anime sonic x;
christopher hayden, character in the television show gilmore girls;

in literature:
christopher awdry, author of the railway series, son of the rev. w. awdry;
christopher hitchens, author, journalist, and literary critic;
christopher klim, author, journalist, and magazine entrepreneur;
christopher marlowe, english dramatist, poet, and translator;
chris masters (writer), australian television journalist;
christopher paolini, author;
christopher tolkien, author, editor, son of the lord of the rings author j. r. r. tolkien;

in music:

chris carter (musician), english musician;
chris carter (producer/disc jockey), los angeles-based disc jockey and music/film producer;
chris cester, drummer for australian rock band jet;
chris chaney, bass player for jane's addiction;
chris cheney, singer/guitarist for australian punk trio, the living end;
chris cornell, american guitarist/singer-songwriter;
christopher cross, american singer and songwriter;
chris daughtry, american idol 5 finalist;
christoph willibald gluck, german composer;
chris "mack daddy" kelly, a member of the rap/hip hop duo kriss kross;
kris kross, rap/hip hop duo;
chris ledoux, country singer;
chris lowe, a member of pop duo pet shop boys;
chris opperman, american composer, pianist;
chris "mack daddy" smith, a member of the rap/hip hop duo kriss kross;
chris tomlin, christian song writer/singer;
christopher uckermann, mexican actor and singer;
chris wolstenholme, the bassist for the english rock band muse;
chris young (musician), singer and songwriter;
chris brown, american r&b singer and dancer;
christopher george latore wallace, american rapper, notorious b.i.g.
christopher brian bridges, american rapper, ludacris;
chris martin, member of popular alternative uk band, coldplay;

in politics:

kit bond, the former governor and current senior united states senator of missouri;
chris carter (politician), new zealand politician and a member of cabinet;
christopher dodd, united states senator, a democrat, from connecticut;
christopher robinson (politician), canadian politician;
christopher robinson, canadian government lawyer;
chris leaman, british politician;

in religion:

saint christopher, saint venerated by catholic and orthodox christians;
friedrich christoph oetinger, german theosophist;
christoph cardinal sch\f6nborn, austrian cardinal and nobleman, archbishop of vienna;

in sports:

chris adams, english cricketer;
chris baker, american professional football player;
chris brown, american professional football player;
chris cairns, new zealand cricketer;
chris capuano, american professional baseball player;
chris carpenter, american professional baseball player;
cris carter, former american football player;
chris chambers, american professional football player;
chris chelios, american professional ice hockey player;
chris cooley, american professional football player;
chris drury, american professional hockey player;
chris duhon, american professional basketball player;
chris duncan, american professional baseball player;
chris gratton, canadian professional hockey player;
chris fydler, former freestyle swimmer from australia;
chris henry, american professional football player;
chris kaman, american professional basketball player;
chris kunitz, canadian professional hockey player;
chris mihm, american professional basketball player;
chris osgood, canadian professional hockey player;
chris phillips, canadian professional hockey player;
chris pronger, canadian professional hockey player;
chris reitsma, american professional baseball player;
chris renaud, former backstroke swimmer from canada;
chris simms, american professional football player;
chris simon, canadian professional hockey player;
chris therien, canadian professional hockey player;
chris webber, american professional basketball player;
chris weinke, american professional football player;
chris young (baseball outfielder), major league baseball player;
chris young (baseball starting pitcher), major league baseball player;
chris young (american football), american football player;

in television and film:

chris carmack, american actor;
chris carter (screenwriter), american screenwriter and producer;
chris evans, american actor;
christopher "topher" grace, american actor;
chris jericho, american-canadian actor, and professional wrestler;
christopher knight, american actor;
(christopher) ashton kutcher, american actor and television personality;
christopher lambert, french/american actor;
christopher lee, english actor;
christopher lloyd, american character actor;
chris marquette, american actor;
christopher mcdonald, american actor;
christopher plummer, canadian actor best known for his role in the sound of music;
christopher reeve, american actor, director, producer and writer;
chris rock, american comedian and actor;
chris tucker, american actor and comedian;
christopher uckermann, mexican actor and singer;
christopher walken, academy award-winning american film and theatre actor;

in wrestling:

chris adams, english professional wrestler;
chris benoit, french-canadian professional wrestler;
chris candido, american professional wrestler;
christopher daniels, american professional wrestler;
chris hero, american professional wrestler;
christopher nowinski, former american professional wrestler;
chris mordetsky, polish-american professional wrestler;
chris parks, american professional wrestler;
chris von erich, american professional wrestler;

in other fields:

chris hughes, co-founder of facebook;
christo javacheff, artist;
christopher sholes, american who contributed to the development of the typewriter;
christopher hedrick, president of intrepid learning solutions;

see also.

christopher wren great 17th century english architect;

external links.

behind the name entry;



















</doc>
<doc id="312255" title="partition function (quantum field theory)" nonfiltered="260" processed="257" dbindex="261">
in quantum field theory, we have a generating functional, z of correlation functions and this value, called the partition function is usually expressed by something like the following functional integral:

 ;

where s is the action functional. this is very analogous to statistical mechanics. in fact, a wick rotation emphasizes the similarities.

see also partition function (statistical mechanics)

books.
 kleinert, hagen, path integrals in quantum mechanics, statistics, polymer physics, and financial markets, 4th edition, world scientific (singapore, 2004); paperback isbn 981-238-107-4   (also available online: pdf-files);







</doc>
<doc id="1166888" title="michael rose" nonfiltered="262" processed="258" dbindex="263">



born in kingston, jamaica on july 11, 1957, michael rose was fortunate enough to be introduced to music as a teenager by his older brother joseph. blessed with an outstanding voice, michael rose would regularly meet in kingston with singers, musicians, writers, and producers such as dennis brown, big youth, the wailers, gregory isaacs, sly and robbie, and others.  with his brothers he sang the hotel circuit.

 career .

michael rose started his recording career as a solo artist for producers yabby u and niney the observer.

he joined black uhuru in 1974? after the departure of don carlos & garth dennis. he led them to international success in the early 1980s, having written most of their popular material. they won the first-ever grammy award for reggae in 1985 for the album "anthem" with the hallmark voice of michael rose in the forefront.

after the release of "anthem" michael left black uhuru and retired to the blue mountains in jamaica to start a coffee farm. he released a string of singles in jamaica, but nothing much was heard of him outside the island until 1989, when he was signed to rca and released the stringly pop-influenced album "proud" in europe and japan. the deal with rca was short-lived however, and rose returned to jamaica to record a new string of sly & robbie produced singles. he also recorded for other producers but the only albums during this period were the japan-only releases "bonanza" (1991) and "king of general" (1992). the sly & robbie singles were eventually released on the vinyl-only "sly and robbie presents: mykall rose - the taxi sessions" in 1995. 1995 also saw his american debut as a solo artist with the album "michael rose" on heartbeat records. the single "short temper" reached #2 on the gavin reggae chart.

in the period 1995-2004 heartbeat records released a total of 9 albums including "party in session: live" and a compilation entitled "". next to these albums, a great amount of different recordings appeared on dozens of jamaican vinyl singles and several albums, including "last chance" which was #1 on the british reggae charts for several weeks. more often than not, his name was spelled "mykal rose", "mikal roze", which rose has said is the ethiopian way of spelling his name, which made it feel closer to home. it would also appear that, in general, the music was not released in the order of recording. he also recorded 'michael rows the boat ashore' in 2001.

in 2002, rose recorded 2 albums: "babylon 9/11 tip of the iceberg" (released on love injection in 2004), and a yet untitled album for african star records. in august 2002, rose was reported arrested in miami airport by us marshalls in a case of mistaken identity. although he was released, it resulted in rose losing his us work permit.

rose re-joined black uhuru in february 2004, and performed several concerts in jamaica and europe with the group. they also released a jamaican single "dollars" and reportedly have recorded a yet untitled and unreleased album. yet, in spite of his reunion with black uhuru, michael rose still tours, records and releases material as a solo artist. dub producer ryan moore (of twilight circus) is responsible for the latest album on m records entitled "african roots" (released june 2005) and its dub companion "african dub" (released november 2005).

his distinct vocal style, his "tu tu twang", and other scats, have inspired many singers.
 he is a memeber of the rastafari movement.

discography.
solo.
	

 (2004);
never give it up (2001);
bonanza (1999);
party in session: live (1998);
dance wicked (1997);
be yourself (1996);
michael rose (1995);

external links.
michael rose bio;

see also.
beres hammond;
barrington levy;
bunny wailer;
for the british army general sir michael rose, see hugh michael rose.;
for the soap opera character michael rose, see michael rose;









</doc>
<doc id="7752372" title="c'est peut-\catre pas l'am\e9rique" nonfiltered="263" processed="259" dbindex="264">

c'est peut-\catre pas l'am\e9rique (english translation: "it may not be america") was the luxembourgish entry in the eurovision song contest 1981, performed in french by jean-claude pascal.

the song is in praise of europe and its lifestyle, with pascal singing that "america isn't everything" and explaining that he prefers the winds of southern france and the music he hears there.

the song was performed fourth on the night (following germany's lena valaitis with johnny blue and preceding israel's hakol over habibi with halayla). at the close of voting, it had received 41 points, placing 11th in a field of 20.

it was succeeded as luxembourgish representative at the 1982 contest by svetlana with cours apr\e8s le temps.



</doc>
<doc id="8789565" title="samuel starkweather" nonfiltered="264" processed="260" dbindex="265">
samuel starkweather (december 27, 1799 july 5, 1876) was mayor of cleveland from 1844 1845 and served a second term from 1857 1858.

starkweather was born in pawtucket, rhode island to oliver and miriam (clay) starkweather.  he graduated from brown college in 1822, tutored there until 1824, and then left to study law in windham, connecticut.  starkweather was admitted to the ohio bar association in columbus in 1826.  starkweather moved to cleveland soon after and joined the cleveland grays in 1837, where he took a prominent position in cleveland politics.  starkweather was elected mayor in 1844, won reelection in 1845, and again in 1857 for a 2-year term.  he was the first judge of the cuyahoga court of common pleas elected under the new constitution and served a 5-year term.  starkweather helped establish the first high school in cleveland.  he also promoted railroads in cleveland and helped establish the cleveland, columbus & cincinnati railroad.

starkweather married julia judd on june 25, 1828.  their 4 children were sarah, samuel, william, and julia.  starkweather is buried in lake view cemetery.






references.
 the encyclopedia of cleveland history by cleveland bicentennial commission (cleveland, ohio), david d. van tassel (editor), and john j. grabowski (editor) isbn 0-253-33056-4;








</doc>
<doc id="8227512" title="jose f. valdez" nonfiltered="265" processed="261" dbindex="266">

private first class jose f. valdez (january 3, 1925-february 17, 1945)  was a united states army soldier who was posthumously awarded the medal of honor   the united states' highest military decoration for his actions near rosenkrantz, france during world war ii.

early years.

valdez was a mexican-american born in the born in governador, new mexico.  he lived in utah in the 1940s and upon the outbreak of world war ii joined the united states army at a recruiting station in the pleasant grove.  after completing his basic training, he was assigned to the army's 3rd infantry division. 

world war ii.

the 3rd infantry division, which was under the command of major general john w. o'daniel, was stationed in north africa.  gen. o'daniel led the division in battles in north africa, sicily, italy, and france.  on january 23, 1945, the 3rd infantry division began its second offensive against siegfried line positions south of zweibrucken. the siegfried line was a defense system stretching more than 630 km (392 miles) with more than 18,000 bunkers, tunnels and tank traps. it went from kleve on the border with the netherlands, along the western border of the old german empire as far as the town of weil am rhein on the border to switzerland.

on january 25, 1945, valdez was on patrol with 5 of his fellow soldiers in the vicinity of rosenkrantz, france, when unexpectedly they confronted an enemy counterattack.  an enemy tank was headed towards the patrol and valdez, upon his own inactive, opened fire against the tank with his automatic rifle, action which made the tank withdrawal.  after valdez killed 3 enemy soldiers in a firefight, the germans ordered a full attack and sent in two companies of infantrymen.

valdez offered to cover the members of his patrol when the platoon leader ordered a withdrawal.  he fired upon the approaching enemy and his patrol members were able to reach american lines.  valdez was wounded and was able to drag himself back to american lines, however, he soon died from his wounds.        
  
medal of honor citation.
jose f. valdez
rank and organization:private first class, u.s. army, company b, 7th infantry, 3rd infantry division.
place and date: near rosenkrantz, france, 25 january 1945.
entered service at:pleasant grove, utah. 
born:governador, new mexico
g.o. no.: 16, 8 february 1946.
citation:
he was on outpost duty with 5 others when the enemy counterattacked with overwhelming strength. from his position near some woods 500 yards beyond the american lines he observed a hostile tank about 75 yards away, and raked it with automatic rifle fire until it withdrew. soon afterward he saw 3 germans stealthily approaching through the woods. scorning cover as the enemy soldiers opened up with heavy automatic weapons fire from a range of 30 yards, he engaged in a fire fight with the attackers until he had killed all 3. the enemy quickly launched an attack with 2 full companies of infantrymen, blasting the patrol with murderous concentrations of automatic and rifle fire and beginning an encircling movement which forced the patrol leader to order a withdrawal. despite the terrible odds, pfc. valdez immediately volunteered to cover the maneuver, and as the patrol 1 by 1 plunged through a hail of bullets toward the american lines, he fired burst after burst into the swarming enemy. three of his companions were wounded in their dash for safety and he was struck by a bullet that entered his stomach and, passing through his body, emerged from his back. overcoming agonizing pain, he regained control of himself and resumed his firing position, delivering a protective screen of bullets until all others of the patrol were safe. by field telephone he called for artillery and mortar fire on the germans and corrected the range until he had shells falling within 50 yards of his position. for 15 minutes he refused to be dislodged by more than 200 of the enemy; then, seeing that the barrage had broken the counter attack, he dragged himself back to his own lines. he died later as a result of his wounds. through his valiant, intrepid stand and at the cost of his own life, pfc. valdez made it possible for his comrades to escape, and was directly responsible for repulsing an attack by vastly superior enemy forces 

 
honors.

valdez was buried with full military honors in the santa fe national cemetery located in santa fe, new mexico.  the government honored the memory of valdez by naming a technical research ship the usns pvt jose f valdez (t-ag-169). the local government of new mexico also honored his memory by designating a section of u.s. hwy. 64 in san juan county as pfc jose f. valdez memorial highway.

awards and recognitions.
among jose f. valdez' decorations and medals were the following:

  medal of honor;
  purple heart medal;
  french croix de guerre ;
  european-african-middle eastern campaign medal;
  american campaign medal;
  world war ii victory medal;
fourragere cord, granted by france to the third infantry division

notes.

see also.
hispanic medal of honor recipients ;
 external links .
medal of honor;
jose f. valdez;








</doc>
<doc id="4741586" title="lakai footwear" nonfiltered="266" processed="262" dbindex="267">


lakai was established in 1993 by mike carroll and rick howard. they wanted to make products the team would be proud of and kept an atmosphere that was supportive and motivating. while it was a risk, they felt like they owed it to skateboarding and skateboarders to take that risk.

in 1999, facing a similar situation in respect to footwear, mike and rick introduced lakai limited footwear with the same dedication and pride they have always invested into their skateboarding and the girl skateboards/chocolate skateboards brands. lakai's has the title  the shoes we skate .

 the lakai team .

 rick howard;
 mike carroll;
   cairo foster;
   marc johnson;
   scott johnston;
   jeff lenoce;
   anthony poppalardo;
   rob welsh;
   brandon biebel;
   eric koston;

 references .

 lakai footwear official site;




</doc>
<doc id="4918000" title="poppin ya collar" nonfiltered="267" processed="263" dbindex="268">
"poppin' ya collar" (also "pop ya collar"), is a phrase generally used in the hip hop lexicon.  it describes not only an action, but also a general attitude.  the term was originally used in this sense by the rapper e-40.  when used by e-40, and many other hip hop artists including three 6 mafia in their song poppin my collar, the term refers to the act of pulling one's collar, or the clothing where one's collar would be (as when wearing a t-shirt), with the thumb and fingertips. one then releases the clothing in varying degrees of flamboyance. used in this sense, "poppin' ya collar" is more about the attitude and message of confidence portrayed in so doing than any clothing style (see upturned collar). e-40 immortalized the term (and the accompanying attitude), in his song pop ya collar from his album loyalty and betrayal. 





</doc>
<doc id="7117208" title="taylor parkes" nonfiltered="268" processed="264" dbindex="269">
taylor parkes is a british journalist, born in 1972. he is best known for his music journalism which appeared in melody maker from 1993 to 1998, notable for a style which mixed dark humour, especially in bitterly critical pieces, with an intellectual tone, influenced by the likes of simon reynolds and paul morley.  he took a stand against the more unadventurous britpop groups of the mid-1990s (which motivated his involvement with the short-lived romo scene), although somewhat surprisingly, he was for a time largely positive towards oasis, in stark contrast to his cohort simon price.  parkes was most closely associated with bands he described as "unafraid of their own intelligence", including saint etienne, pulp and manic street preachers, and was an occasional champion of the avant-garde, writing favourably about post-rock.

he also contributed to ikon, a pop-cultural magazine published briefly in the mid-1990s, and in the 2000s has written for the football magazine when saturday comes, as well as careless talk costs lives and plan b, both edited by his former melody maker colleague everett true, and the now-defunct music monthly bang.  his website "anal hospital", a collection of blackly comic parodies of magazine journalism, is currently offline.  his livejournal, "taylor parkes' alternatives to suicide", is at http://taylor-parkes.livejournal.com.







</doc>
<doc id="4948652" title="vahid talebloo" nonfiltered="269" processed="265" dbindex="270">


vahid talebloo (persian:              , born 26 may, 1982 in tehran) is an iranian football goalkeeper, who currently plays for esteghlal fc in iran's premier football league.

club career.
talebloo was very impressive in esteghlal's goal even though he was competing with another national team goalie, mehdi rahmati.

he began receiving media attention when he was able to save ali daei's spot kick in an ipl match at the beginning of the 2005/06 season. ever since then he has become the main goalkeeper for esteghlal and was one of the keys to esteghlal winning the ipl championship in the 05/06 season.

in august 2006 talebloo signed a one year contract extension with esteghlal fc although he had said that he will leave esteghlal because the directors there had not kept the promises they made to him but he found it hard to part with the club he loves.

international career.
he made his debut for iran in the asian cup 2007 qualifying match against chinese taipei. 

 honours .
iran's premier football league: 05/06 winner;

 external links .
  official website;
vahid talebloo atteammelli.com;
vahid talebloo at fifa world cup official site;
















</doc>
<doc id="328652" title="shinminato, toyama" nonfiltered="270" processed="266" dbindex="271">
shinminato (   ; -shi) was a city located in toyama, japan.

as of 2003, the city had an estimated population of 37,094 and the density of 1,146.29 persons per km\b2. the total area is 32.36 km\b2.

the city was founded on 15th march, 1951.

the city merged on the 1st november, 2005 with imizu district to form the new city of imizu and the city dissolved.

 external links .
 official website in japanese;
 official website in english;












</doc>
<doc id="5723714" title="an electric storm" nonfiltered="271" processed="267" dbindex="272">


an electric storm is the debut album by uk rock group white noise. 

track listing.
"love without sound"    2:57 (derbyshire/vorhaus);
"my game of loving"    3:38 (duncan/vorhaus);
"here come the fleas"    2:31 (mcdonald/vorhaus);
"firebird"    2:43 (derbyshire/vorhaus);
"your hidden dreams"    4:25 (mcdonald/vorhaus);
"the visitations"    11:45 (mcdonald/vorhaus);
"the black mass: an electric storm in hell"    7:04 (white noise);

lineup.
david vorhaus - production co-ordinator.
delia derbyshire, brian hodgson - electronic sound realisation.
paul lytton - percussion.
john whitman, annie bird, val shaw - vocals. 

external links.
 head heritage  review;





</doc>
<doc id="6495500" title="too careful (ep)" nonfiltered="272" processed="268" dbindex="273">


too careful ep is the second release by the australian rock band end of fashion. the songs too careful and love comes in were later re-recorded for end of fashions debut album simply titled end of fashion.

track listing.
"too careful";
"you and only you";
"love comes in";
"counting your friends";

note.
the versions of too careful and love comes in are different from the versions that appear on the end of fashion album.



</doc>
<doc id="598739" title="rollo armstrong" nonfiltered="273" processed="269" dbindex="274">
rollo armstrong (born in london) is a part of the music producers/remixers team rollo and sister bliss and older brother to dido, whom he helped to write and produce the multi-million selling albums no angel and life for rent. 
he is also a member of the electronic music group faithless, which he formed in 1995 with sister bliss, jamie catto and maxi jazz. in the united states, rollo is most recognized for his production work on singer/songwriter's, kristine w's debut album, "land of the living."

a member of mensa and holder of a philosophy degree, he has achieved many musical accomplishments as a member of groups and solo, using various monikers: faithless, rollo goes ..., felix, our tribe (with rob dougan), and dusted.

in 1991, rollo founded cheeky records and released two records before it folded a year later because of his lack of business knowledge. champion records then stepped in to help with funding and advice enabling cheeky to re-launch in 1994 (it has since been bought out by bmg). in 1992 a mysterious single was issued, named "don't you want me" (not to be confused with the 1981 song with the same name by human league), played in heavy rotation by club djs around the world, soon becoming a reliable floor filler. the video which corresponded to the track had a fairly  psychedelic feel; it solely consisted of animated graphics whose "pulsating" movement was perfectly synchronized to the beat, which made it resemble a scene demo on the classic home computers. at that time, no one had any idea about the man hiding behind the felix handle. not until several months later, it was eventually revealed that it was rollo who had produced this engrossing club classic. later in 2006, in a bbc radio 1 interview with pete tong rollo revealed, that he was paid only 300 pounds to do the track.

discography.
felix.
"don't you want me" (single) (1992);
"it will make me crazy" (single) (1992);
"stars" (single) (1993);
"fastslow" / "it's me" (promo) (1993);
"get down" (promo) (1993);
"#1" (1993);

our tribe.
"i believe in you" (single) (1993);
"love come home" (single) (1994);

the o.t. quartet.
"hold that sucker down" (single) (1994);

rollo goes camping.
"get off your high horse" (single) (1994);

rollo goes mystic.
"love, love, love - here i come" (single) (1995);

rollo goes spiritual.
"let this be a prayer" (single) (1996);

dusted.
when we were young (2001);
"always remember to respect and honor your mother" (single) (2001);
"angel" (dusted remix)   sarah mclachlan (2001);
the dusted variations, a set of covers included in enigma's 15 years after box set.

on 28 september 2005, rollo armstrong has released a completely re-worked version of the 2000 dusted when we were young album named safe from harm, accompanied by an illustrated 80 pages hardcover book with the same name. (isbn 0-283-07031-5)






















</doc>
<doc id="7481356" title="the a-team (film)" nonfiltered="274" processed="270" dbindex="275">




the a-team is a 2008 american film adaptation of the 1980s tv series of the a-team written and produced by stephen j. cannell, the tv series executive producer and co-written by bruce feirstein, whose previous works include the scripts of the james bond movies goldeneye, tomorrow never dies, and the world is not enough. it should be noted that this movie has had a very on-off status, dating back to the mid-1990s. it is currently planned for a 2008 release, but is subject to change. the three surviving cast members of the original television series (dirk benedict, dwight schultz and mr. t) are planned to be included in cameo roles. 

external links.
 imdb;
 the a-team the movie insider;
 a-team tv series 'for big screen' bbc news;
 the a-team - greg's preview yahoo! movies;
 mr. t gets real in tv land's i pity the fool tv guide;









</doc>
<doc id="1653906" title="hull-down" nonfiltered="275" processed="271" dbindex="276">


in modern armoured warfare, hull-down is a position taken up by an armoured fighting vehicle (afv) such that its hull (the main part of the vehicle) is behind a crest or other raised ground, but its turret (or a superstructure or roof-mounted weapon) is exposed.  this allows it to observe and fire upon the ground ahead, while the hull is protected from enemy fire behind hard cover.  a hull-down afv is said to be in defilade. taking advantage of hull-down positions is an element of tactical movement.



turret-down is the position in which the vehicle's crew can observe forward from roof hatches, but the vehicle is completely hidden (usually a few metres farther back from a hull-down position).  this can also apply to vehicles without turrets.

in relatively flat or gently rolling terrain, a hull-down position may be difficult to find.  the actual protecting rise of ground may be hundreds of metres long.  in steep or abrupt terrain cover is usually plentiful, but it may be difficult to find covered positions from which the vehicle's main gun can fire upon terrain ahead (see tank design, below).

in preparing defensive works, a hull-down position can be created or improved by digging shallow "tank scrapes".  tank units usually have one or two tanks with 'dozer' blades attached for this purpose, and some tank models have a built-in blade.  combat engineering vehicles often accompany armoured vehicles as they manouvere to dig tank scrapes, as they can accomplish the task more quickly.


 tactical movement .


crossing a crest or ridge-line is a dangerous manoeuvre for afvs, as they are particularly exposed to enemy fire while silhouetted against the sky (sky-lined). while cresting a steep slope, the thin armour on the front bottom of a tank's hull (below the thick glacis plate) can be exposed to fire.  after cresting, the thin top armour may be exposed while it moves down the forward slope.  if an antitank gunner has spotted the afv, he may train his sights on it and wait for an easy shot while it moves forward.

after observing from a hull-down or turret-down position, an armoured vehicle will try to advance while minimizing these risks.  if possible, it will reverse away from a crest, and try to find a route forward through the relative safety of hidden low ground (dead ground).  

if crossing a long crest is unavoidable, the vehicle will first back down and jockey at least 50 metres across the covered back of the slope, before advancing over the crest at high speed.  an enemy gunner will have little time to locate the target, train his sights on it, and take the shot.  if the terrain is hilly enough, the afv can quickly enter low ground, then advance through it to another hull-down position.

 mutual support .

small armoured units (companies or platoons) make use of these tactics in co-ordinated fashion, when contact with the enemy is expected.  since firing while moving was until recently impossible or relatively ineffective, elements of a unit (platoons, patrols, or individual vehicles) take turns moving and supporting each other from the halt (see overwatch).  this is called mutual support, or fire and movement, related to the infantry tactic of leap-frogging. co-ordination is accomplished by hand signals or radio messages.  

lightly-armed reconnaissance elements make much use of covered movement and stealth, while offensive units such as tanks move much more aggressively.  when speed is paramount, modern tanks (which can fire effectively while moving) may dispense with fire and movement, and move all at once.

 tank design .


tanks and other fighting vehicles must be able to depress their gun to be able to take advantage of a hull-down position, since a vehicle's hull is usually tilted upwards when it is behind a crest.  a vehicle with a relatively small range of gun depression may have to drive up onto an exposed crest or forward slope to be able to fire on lower ground to the front.

notably, soviet and russian tanks after world war ii have very low profiles, but pay for this advantage by having a poor range of gun depression.  their low turret roof stops the rising gun breech when the muzzle is depressed.  thus, soviet tank crews would have a hard time finding a hull-down position from which they could cover much of the terrain by fire.  the typical soviet tank had a range of elevation of -5 to +15 degrees, about half that of western tanks with a range of about -10 to +20 degrees.

this disadvantage was deemed acceptable, since soviet armoured doctrine emphasized the massed attack with local superiority in numbers. soviet mechanized forces were supposed to spend more time advancing under fire than in defensive hull-down positions. in contrast, nato tanks would have been at an advantage in ridge-top hull-down positions, attacking top and side armour of advancing soviet tanks in killing zones where they couldn't fire back directly. 

soviet doctrine didn't neglect the defence, however. newer soviet tank models were equipped with an integral dozer blade, so given time, they could improve a hull-down position. soviet tactics also emphasis the use of tanks on the defense in the mobile counter attack role, rather than engaging an enemy advance from relatively fixed positions. 

the polar opposite of the soviet tanks is the defensively-designed swedish stridsvagn 103. built like a high-tech tank destroyer, but serving the role of a tank, this turretless vehicle is made to nearly disappear in a hull-down position.  it has an even lower profile than soviet mbts, with a fixed, auto-loaded gun that is nearly flat against the roof.  its design gets around the soviet tanks' limitations by tilting the entire tank hull to elevate (and depress) the gun.  the stridsvagn 103 also has an integral dozer blade, and a second set of rear-facing driver controls for the radio operator, allowing it to withdraw from a hull-down position at full speed.  this radical, specialized design was created for its hypothetical defensive role on roads in a forested country.

 external links .

 hull down and turret positioning article at combatsim.com, with a diagram showing hull-down and turret-down positions.
 chapter 4: "defensive operations" from us army manual fm 17-15 tank platoon;





</doc>
<doc id="2927114" title="wilhelmstra\dfe" nonfiltered="276" processed="272" dbindex="277">





the wilhelmstra\dfe is a street in berlin, the capital of germany. between the mid 19th century and 1945 it was the administrative centre first of the kingdom of prussia and then of the unified german state, housing in particular the reich chancellery and the foreign office. for this reason the term "the wilhelmstra\dfe" was used to signify the german governmental administration as a whole, much as the term "whitehall" is often used to signify the british governmental administration as whole.

the wilhelmstra\dfe runs south from the unter den linden, on a line slightly east of south, until its juncture with stresemannstra\dfe near the hallesches ufer, a distance of about two kilometres. it is crossed (as one heads south) by behrenstra\dfe, leipziger stra\dfe and zimmerstra\dfe, which to the west of the wilhelmstra\dfe becomes niederkirchnerstra\dfe (known before world war ii as prinz-albrecht-stra\dfe).

a street along this line has existed since the early 18th century, and was known as husarenstra\dfe (street of the hussars) until 1740, when it, along with the friedrichstra\dfe, which runs roughly parallel to the east, were given their current names to commemorate friedrich wilhelm i of prussia, who had done much to develop the area.

originally a wealthy residential street, with a number of palaces belonging to members of the prussian royal family, the wilhelmstra\dfe developed as a government precinct from the mid 19th century. from 1875 the reich chancellery building stood at wilhelmstra\dfe 77. during the years of the weimar republic (1919-33), the president of the republic's official residence was at wilhelmstra\dfe 73. it was from the balcony of this building that president paul von hindenburg watched the torchlight parade on the night the nazis came to power in january 1933.

in 1939 a new reich chancellery was built for adolf hitler by albert speer. this building stood immediately south of the old chancellery, on the corner of the wilhelmstra\dfe and vo\dfstra\dfe, and its official address was vo\dfstra\dfe 4, but the balcony from which hitler addressed crowds faced the wilhelmstra\dfe. the square opposite the building, known as the wilhelmplatz, no longer exists. also vanished is the kaiserhof hotel, which stood a few doors away and had been hitler's favoured residence in berlin before he came to power.

the german foreign office stood at wilhelmstra\dfe 73, the old building being refurbished in grandiose style by the nazi foreign minister joachim von ribbentrop. the finance ministry stood at wilhelmstra\dfe 61. during the nazi years joseph goebbels's propaganda ministry stood further south at wilhelmstra\dfe 8 and 9. the agriculture ministry stood at wilhelmstra\dfe 72, as it still does today - the only german government ministry now located on its prewar site, although in a reconstructed building. the british embassy was at wilhelmstra\dfe 70. the original building was destroyed by bombing, and a new embassy built on the site after the reunification of germany in 1991.

the only major surviving public building on the wilhelmstra\dfe from the nazi era is the reich air ministry building at wilhelmstra\dfe 81 to 85, south of leipziger stra\dfe, a huge edifice built on the orders of hermann g\f6ring between 1933 and 1936. this building escaped major damage during the war. as one of the few intact government buildings in central berlin, it was occupied by the council of ministers of the new german democratic republic in 1949. as such it was at the centre of the popular demonstrations during the workers' uprising of 17 june 1953.

apart from the air ministry, all the major public buildings along the wilhelmstra\dfe were destroyed by allied bombing during 1944 and early 1945. the wilhelmstra\dfe as far south as zimmerstra\dfe was in the soviet zone of occupation, and apart from clearing the rubble from the street little was done to reconstruct the area until the founding of the gdr in 1949. the communist gdr regime regarded the former government precinct as a relic of prussian and nazi militarism and imperialism, and had all the ruins of the government buildings demolished in the early 1950s. in the late 1950s there were almost no buildings at all along the wilhelmstra\dfe from the unter den linden to leipziger stra\dfe. later apartment blocks were built along this section of the street.

from 1964 to 1991, when the street as far south as zimmerstra\dfe was in the territory of the gdr, this section was named otto-grotewohl-stra\dfe, after otto grotewohl, who was prime minister of the gdr from 1949 to 1964.

today the wilhelmstra\dfe is an important traffic artery, but has not regained its former status. the air ministry building today houses the german finance ministry. this, the agriculture ministry and the british embassy are the only public buildings on the street. many of the occupants of the apartment blocks are recent immigrants, and there are a number of shops and restaurants catering to russians and turks.

in recent years the city of berlin has placed a series of historical markers along the wilhelmstra\dfe, showing where the well-known buildings of the pre-war era stood.

external links.

wilhelmstra\dfe in berlin online streep maps ;
the historical wilhelmstra\dfe ;







</doc>
<doc id="4961769" title="the marlborough express" nonfiltered="277" processed="273" dbindex="278">
the marlborough express is a newspaper servicing the marlborough area of new zealand. its headquarters are in blenheim and it is a division of fairfax.


new zealand newspapers

</doc>
<doc id="2730747" title="kill the sun" nonfiltered="278" processed="274" dbindex="279">

kill the sun was the german band xandria's debut album, released in may 2003.

track listing.
 "kill the sun";
 "mermaids";
 "ginger";
 "she's nirvana";
 "forever yours";
 "casablanca";
 "so you disappear";
 "wisdom";
 "isis / osiris";
 "calyx virago";






</doc>
<doc id="7194258" title="liberal religion" nonfiltered="279" processed="275" dbindex="280">
liberal religion is a religious tradition which embraces the theological diversity of a congregation rather than respecting any single creed, authority, or writing.  because it may draw resources from many traditions, it cannot normally be characterized as christian, jewish, or any particular religious faith. theologian james luther adams defined the "five smooth stones of liberalism" as:

revelation and truth are not closed, but constantly revealed.
all relations between persons ought ideally to rest on mutual, free consent and not coercion.
affirmation of the moral obligation to direct one's effort toward the establishment of a just and loving community.
denial of the immaculate conception of virtue and affirmation of the necessity of social incarnation. good must be consciously given form and power within history.
the resources (divine and human) that are available for achievement of meaningful change justify an attitude of ultimate (but not necessarily immediate) optimism. there is hope in the ultimate abundance of the universe.;

unitarian universalist minister kimi riegel defined liberal religion as 

to be a liberal according to my favorite scripture, merriam-webster, is be open minded, is to be free from the constraints of dogmatism and authority, is to be generous and to believe in the basic goodness of humankind. religion is defined as that which binds us back or reconnects us to that which is ultimately important. thus religious liberals are those that are connected, through generosity and openness, to the most important aspects of life. and there in lies the challenge. if we are open minded and not bound by authority who or what decides those matters of ultimate importance?;

see also.
liberal theology;
unitarianism;
universalism;



</doc>
<doc id="1974884" title="city college of san francisco" nonfiltered="280" processed="276" dbindex="281">

city college of san francisco, or ccsf, is a two-year community college in san francisco, california. the ocean avenue campus, in the ingleside neighborhood, is the college's primary locale. visiting guests, faculty, and students can enjoy a panoramic view from the beach to downtown and across the bay. city college of san francisco is one of the largest community colleges in the country, with an annual enrollment of more than 100,000 students. 

;

history.

city college first opened in august 1935, but it wasn't located at the ocean avenue campus until 1940. 
 


academic leadership.
for over 70 years, city college of san francisco has aimed to simultaneously provide students with an education and meet the needs of the community. the college has long been recognized for its ability to prepare students for further education as transfer students at leading four year universities such as the university of california, berkeley, with full acceptance of academic credits.

opportunities for women.
ccsf was the first college to offer women training as aircraft mechanics., and established one of the first women's studies programs in the nation. , 

on campus, there are numerous student activity groups, gender-specific courses, and health services. for example, the women's resource center and library (smith hall, 103-104) offers women on campus an opportunity to network with academic support services and resources, and project survive is a campus peer education group working to promote healthy relationships and end abuse and sexual violence. 


opportunities for the lgbtqqipps communities.
ccsf established the first gay, lesbian, and bisexual studies department in the u.s. (1989), teaching courses in queer studies.
lgbtqqipps... stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender(queer), queer, questioning, intersex, pansexual, polyamorous, straight allies.

currently, there are queer alliance and the queer resource center on campus. the former is a student group.




hotel and restaurant management programs.
founded in 1936, the program is "the oldest two-year hospitality program in the country and oldest of any kind emphasizing culinary arts," with an annual average enrollment of 200 international students.




campus diversity.

students bring a wealth of backgrounds. they come from many countries.

numerous courses explore cultural topics in african american studies, asian american studies, latino/a studies, and philippine studies. there are also several student organizations on campus (see below). 

demographics.
34.9% - asian/pacific islander;
19.9% - hispanic/latino;
19.8% - white;
11.0% - unknown/no response;
7.0% - african american;
5.2% - filipino;
1.7% - other;
0.4% - american indian/alaska native (including other indigenous, native, traditional, and aboriginal people);

campus organizations.
abundant life christian fellowship;
alpha gamma sigma;
american institute of architecture students;
anarchist college;
anarchist library;
asian music club;
associated students;
band original;
black student union;
buddhism club;
business club;
caf\e9 mus\e9e;
campus police service organization;
catholic student club;
ccsf gecko;
chinese cultural club;
christian fellowship club;
city college players club;
city college press club;
coalition club;
dragon boat club;
economics - political science club;
fencing club;
freedom school;
indonesian student/s clubs;
international business association;
international students association;
kcsf radio;
la raza unida;
latin american music and arts (lama);
le cercle francais;
multi-voice s.a.g. (students appreciating gospel);
muslim student association;
muslim women association;
myanmar student club;
native american study organization;
nursing students association;
p.e.a.c.e, p.w.r.t.b.t.s (s.i.t.r);
peer advisors stepping stone (pass);
poetry for the people;
polynesian club;
project safe;
project survive;
queer alliance;
rams cheerleaders;
reach sf;
revolution youth;
science and math;
south asian student association;
spare the air;
student parents united;
swing city dancers;
team ect.
the philosophy club;
the t. pflueger club;
trans divas;
u too;
vietnamese students association;
women united;
world music club;
young democrats club;

student counseling and academic outreach services.
african american scholastic programs (aasp);
asian pacific american student success (apass);
continuing student counseling (cscd);
disabled students programs & services (dsps);
extended opportunity programs & services (eops);
financial aid counseling (fao);
gis education center (gisec);
homeless at-risk transitional students programs (harts);
international student counseling (iscd);
latina/o services network (lsn);
new student counseling department (nscd);
mental health counseling (shs);
transfer center counseling (tc);
queer resource center (qrc);

administration.
the district for city college is an independent co-extensive with the city and county of san francisco. its board of trustees is elected by san francisco residents. district funds are allocated from the state legislature, local property taxes, student tuition and fees, lottery funds, sales tax funds, and miscellaneous sources. the district's programs are certified by the accrediting commission for community and junior colleges of the western association of schools and colleges. 

board of trustees.
chancellor: dr. philip r. day jr.;
president: dr. natalie berg ;
vice-president: johnnie carter ;
members: dr. anita grier, milton marks iii, julio j. ramos, rodel e. rodis, lawrence wong.

chancellors.
 philip r. day (1998-present);
 del m. anderson (1995-1998);
 evan dobelle (1990-1995);
 hilary k. hsu (1982-1990);
 herbert m. sussman (1977-1982) ;
 louis f. batmale (1970-1977);

presidents.
jacquelyn w. green (1990-1991), willis f. kirk (1988-1990), carlos b. ramirez (1983-1988), warren r. white (interim, 1982-1983), kenneth s. washington (1975-1982), harry frustuck (interim, 1974-1975), harry buttimer (1970-1974), louis f. batmale (1970-1974), lloyd d. luckman (acting, 1967), louis g. conlan (1949-1970), archibald j. cloud (1935-1949).

centers division: rena bancroft (1986-1991), nancy swadesh (1984-1986), laurent broussal (1978-1984), calvin dellefield (1975-1978), carolyn biesadecki (acting president, 1974-1975), james dierke (1970-1974).

budget (2005 06).
revenue (estimate): $161.6 million

sources:
legislative funding - 76.9%;
sales tax - 8%;
partnership for excellence - 4.2%;
non-resident 2.9%;
california state lottery - 3.3%;
beginning balance - 2.2%;
other - 2.5%;

expenditures (estimate): $161.2 million

allocations: 
academic and student support services - 75%;
general institutional services - 13%;
operating and maintenance - 9%;
planning and policy making - 3% ;





campuses.
airport campus (sfo, building 928);
alemany campus;
castro/valencia campus;
chinatown/northbeach campus;
downtown campus;
evans campus (bayview district, evans at 3rd);
john adams campus (north of panhandle, masonic at hayes);
mission campus/el colegio de la missi\f3n;
ocean campus main (main campus, ingleside);
southeast campus (bayview district, phelps at oakdale);

crime and safety.
city college of san francisco is located in urban environment and has the associated crime.    crime statistics are maintained by the san francisco community college district police department(sfccdpd).  the san francisco community college district police do not carry firearms, giving them the distinction of being one of a few urban police departments in the united states that are unarmed.   

crime prevention tips

most crimes that occur on campus are crimes of "opportunity."   here are some ways to avoid being a victim or statistic and have a positive learning experience at city college of san francisco. 

do not leave personal belongings unattended even for a minute, in the library, a classroom or any other area.
use the buddy system or get an escort when walking to and from the parking lots.  always keep your keys in your hand.
do not carry large amounts of money with you.
use the emergency call boxes or dial # then 1 from any campus payphone to report suspicious activities and incidents.
lock your car and never leave valuables visible to the public.
common sense is your best protection.

public transportation.
the ocean avenue campus is accessible from bart (bay area rapid transit) and muni (san francisco municipal railway). bart passengers can travel from larger distances in the east bay, downtown san francisco, or san mateo county to the balboa park station. passengers using muni can take the k-ingleside line or one of several bus lines. other campuses are also accessible on public transportation.

murals at the ocean campus.
a large mural, pan american unity, created in 1940 by diego rivera is exhibited in the theatre lobby, and may be viewed during open hours. visit the mural website at: www.riveramural.org. also, the student union building's front fa\e7ade is painted with a large multicultural mural.

notable students.
see also: 
joe angel, radio broadcaster for the baltimore orioles;
bill bixby, actor, notably in the 1970s television series the incredible hulk;
 helen crlenkovich, 1939 national diving champion, 1940 olympic team member;
danny glover, actor and director;
lee meriwether, former miss america and actor;
o.j. simpson, professional football hall-of-famer, found liable in the death of his wife and a family friend;
damian harrell,  professional arena football player for the colorado crush;

references.
history of ccsf ;
women's studies history at city college ;
campus peer educators project survive ;
queer studies department ;
sf chamber of commerce ;
stem cells and biotech info (pdf) ;
student enrollment by year ;
career and technical education programs ;
budgetary info ;
a short history: seventy years of making dreams into reality (pdf) ;
women's resource center ;








</doc>
<doc id="526430" title="royal society of literature" nonfiltered="281" processed="277" dbindex="282">
the royal society of literature is the "senior literary organisation in britain." it was founded in 1820 by george iv, with the aim to "reward literary merit and excite literary talent."

the society has an annual magazine, rsl, and administers a number of literary prizes and awards, including the ondaatje prize, the jerwood awards and the v. s. pritchett memorial prize. it can confer the honour of companion of literature for writers of particular note. it also awards the benson medal for lifetime service in the field of literature.

address.

 the royal society of literature;
 somerset house;
 the strand;
 london wc2r 1la;
 united kingdom;

external links.

 the royal society of literature website;
 rsl annual magazine;
 literary prizes and awards;










</doc>
<doc id="6223943" title="varsity blues ep" nonfiltered="282" processed="278" dbindex="283">


varsity blues is an ep released in 2002 by living legends member murs. it is built around the theme of blues music.

track listing.









</doc>
<doc id="363701" title="unknown pleasures" nonfiltered="283" processed="279" dbindex="284">

unknown pleasures is the first album by joy division, released in 1979. it was produced by martin hannett and recorded at strawberry studios, stockport, england.  

the front cover image comes from an edition of the cambridge encyclopedia of astronomy, and was originally drawn with black lines on a white background.  it presents exactly 100 successive pulses from the first pulsar discovered, psr 1919+21 (often referred to in the context of this album by its older name, cp 1919). the cover design is credited to joy division, peter saville and chris mathan. the back cover of the album contains no track listings, leaving a blank table where one would expect the listings to be.

unknown pleasures reached #71 in the uk charts in august 1980 in the aftermath of ian curtis' death.

in 2000 q magazine placed unknown pleasures at number 19 in its list of the 100 greatest british albums ever.

track listing.
"disorder"    3:32;
"day of the lords"    4:50;
"candidate"    3:05;
"insight"    4:29;
"new dawn fades"    4:48;
"she's lost control"    3:57;
"shadowplay"    3:56;
"wilderness"    2:38;
"interzone"    2:16;
"i remember nothing"    5:52;

personnel.
ian curtis - vocals, guitar on "i remember nothing";
bernard sumner - guitar, keyboards;
peter hook - bass, second vocalist on "interzone";
stephen morris - drums, percussion;

sample.


external links.
 unknown pleasures in details;
 ian curtis and joy division fans club;















</doc>
<doc id="4718550" title="davis (surname)" nonfiltered="284" processed="280" dbindex="285">
davis is a surname, and may refer to many people.



a.
 adam hart-davis, british writer and television presenter;
 adelle davis, american nutritionist;
 al davis, general manager of the oakland raiders national football league team and former head coach of the franchise;
 al bummy davis, american boxer;
 alan davis, british comic book artist;
 alana davis, american singer-songwriter;
 alexander jackson davis;
 alice brown davis, native american chief;
 alisha davis, american television reporter;
 allan davis, australian cyclist;
 allen lee davis;
 altovise davis, american dancer and third wife of sammy davis jr.
 alvin davis;
 amanda davis, american novelist;
 andra davis;
 andr\e9 davis;
 andrew davis, one of several people including;
sir andrew davis (andrew frank davis, born february 2, 1944), british conductor;
andrew davis (film director) (born 1947), american film director;
andrew jackson davis, american spiritualist;
 angela davis,  (born 1944), american author and activist;
 ann davis, american model;
 ann b. davis, american actress;
 anthony davis, american jazz pianist;
 anthony davis (football player);
 antonio davis;
 art davis, jazz bassist;
 arthur davis;
 arthur hoey davis, australian writer using the name steele rudd;
 arthur joseph davis, british architect;
 artur davis;

b.
 bancroft davis, american lawyer and diplomat;
 barbara davis, widow of marvin davis;
 baron davis, american basketball player;
 barry davis, australian rules footballer;
 ben davis, one of several people including;
ben davis (baseball);
ben davis (basketball);
ben davis (professional football player);
 benjamin o. davis, sr., american general;
 benjamin oliver davis, jr., american general;
 benny davis, american footballer;
 bernard davis, american biologist;
 betsy davis, american artist;
 bette davis, american actress;
 betty davis (born 1945), singer;
 bill davis, canadian politician;
 bill davis (nascar), american owner of bill davis racing;
 billy davis, one of several people including;
roquel billy davis, songwriter, music producer and advertising agency executive;
billy davis (politician), candidate for vice president of the united states as lyndon larouche's running mate in his 1984 presidential campaign;
billy davis, the bass guitar player in the hardcore punk bands tragedy (band) and from ashes rise;
billy davis, jr.,  a pop singer who is married to model/singer/actress marilyn mccoo;
 billy newton-davis, canadian singer;
 bob davis, australian rules footballer;
 brad davis, one of several people including;
brad davis (actor) (1949 1991);
brad davis (basketball), american basketball player;
brad davis (soccer), american soccer player;
 brian davis, british golfer;
 brian davis (cleric), new zealand archbishop;
 brooke davis, fictional character from one tree hill ;
 bryan davis, cricketer from trinidad and tobago;
 bud davis, stuntman ;
 butch davis, american football coach;

c.
 carl davis, american film  music composer;
 cathy davis (born c 1959), american boxer;
 chan davis, american mathematician and science fiction writer;
 charles davis, one of several people including;
charles davis, jr., texas state representative, 1906 1909;
charles g. davis, texas state representative, 1951 1953;
charles harold davis (1856/7 1933), american landscape painter;
charles henry davis (1807 1877), american naval officer;
charles russell davis (1849 1930), u.s. representative from minnesota;
 charlie davis, cricketer from trinidad and tobago;
 chili davis;
 chip davis, american musician;
 chris davis, american football player;
 clarence davis, american football player;
 clifton davis;
 clive davis;
 colin davis, british conductor;
 colin davis (driver);
 cullen davis, american entrepreneur;
 curt davis (1903-1965), american baseball player;
 cushman davis;

d.
 dafydd davis, welsh builder of bike trails;
 dale davis, american basketball player;
 daniel davis (disambiguation), one of several people including;
daniel davis, american actor;
daniel c. davis (died 1850), captain in the mormon battalion;
daniel f. davis, maine governor from 1880 to 1881;
rev. daniel davis, clergyman from st kitts;
 danny davis (wrestler), american wrestler;
 danny davis (dan marsh), american wrestler and referee as dan marsh;
 danny k. davis, american politician;
 dantrell davis, american victim of gang fighting;
 david davis (disambiguation), one of several people including;
david davis (born 1948), conservative mp in british parliament and conservative leadership candidate in 2005;
david davis (australian politician) (born 1962), liberal member of the victorian legislative council;
david davis (broadcaster), the stage name of eric davis, one of the presenters of the bbc children's hour in the 1950s;
david davis (handball player), spanish handball player;
david davis (politician), state representative in tennessee;
david davis (senator) (1815 1886), supreme court justice and u.s. senator from illinois;
david davis (television writer), the co-creator of the sitcom taxi;
david daniel davis (1777 1841), british physician;
david e. davis, automotive journalist and founder of automobile magazine;
david j. davis (1870 1942), lt. governor of pennsylvania;
david m. davis, chief financial officer of northwest airlines since september 9, 2005;
david w. davis (1873 1959), governor of idaho;
 deane c. davis, american politician;
 deborah davis, american activist;
 dennis davis, american musician;
 deray davis, american comedian;
 destiny davis, american model;
 deven davis, american model;
 devin davis, american musician;
 devin davis, american poet;
 diana davis, fictional character from sliders;
 domanick davis, american football player;
 don davis, one of several people including;
don davis (american football), linebacker for the new england patriots of the nfl;
don davis (artist), astronomer who is known for his paintings of space;
don davis (composer), known for his scores for films such as the matrix;
don davis (politician), republican politician who currently sits in the florida house of representatives;
don s. davis, actor who is known for his roles in stargate sg-1 and twin peaks;
 donald davis;
 doris a. davis, american mayor;
 dorothy salisbury davis, american crime writer;
 doug davis;
 doug e. davis, american politician;
 drexell r. davis, american politician;
 duff hart-davis, british biographer, son of rupert hart-davis and father of adam hart-davis;
 dwight f. davis (died 1945), tennis enthusiast;

e.
 edith smith davis, temperance activist;
 eddie davis (saxophonist) (eddie "lockjaw" davis), american jazz tenor saxophonist;
 edmund j. davis (1827-1883), american jurist, soldier, and politician;
 edward davis, 17th-century english buccaneer;
 edward m. davis, american police chief and politician;
 edwin davis, american executioner;
 elmer davis;
 eric davis, baseball player;
 eric davis (football player);
 erik davis, american writer;
 erin davis, canadian radio personality;
 ernie davis (1939-1963), american football player;
 essie davis, australian actress;
 evan davis, american comedian;
 evan davis (uk reporter), british television journalist;

f.
 fred davis, british snooker player;
 frenchie davis;

g.
 gail davis, american actress;
 garrett davis, american politician;
 garry davis, peace activist;
 reverend gary davis, american blues musician;
 gary lee davis, american convicted murderer;
 geena davis, american actress;
 gene davis, several people including;
gene davis (actor), born eugene m. davis, american actor;
gene davis (painter), american painter, from washington, dc;
 geoff davis, american politician;
 george davis, one of several people including;
george davis (art director);
george davis (armed robber) (born 1941);
george davis (baseball player) (1870 1940);
george davis (climber), mountain climber;
george davis (politician) (1820 1896), confederate states attorney general;
george andrew davis, jr. (died 1952), u.s. air force major, medal of honor;
george monty davis, "naked yoga guy";
george t. davis (1907 2006), american criminal defense lawyer ;
george whitefield davis (1839 1918), american general, military governor of puerto rico;
 gerald davis, philatelist;
 gerard davis, new zealand soccer player;
 gerry davis, one of several people:
 gerry davis (screenwriter) (1930-1991);
 gerry davis (umpire) (born 1953), baseball umpire;
 glen davis, one of several people including;
glen davis (basketball) (born 1986);
glen davis, new south wales, a town in australia;
 glenn davis, one of several people including;
glenn davis (baseball) (born 1961);
glenn davis (web design), pioneer web designer;
glenn ashby davis (born 1934), runner;
glenn robert davis (1914 1988), u.s. congressman from wisconsin;
glenn woodward davis (1924 2005), american football player;
 glyn davis, australian academic administrator;
 gray davis, former governor of california;
 greg davis, one of several people including;
greg davis (coach), american football;
greg davis (musician);
 gronow davis, british general;
 gussie davis, american songwriter;
 guy davis, comic book artist;
 guy davis (blues musician);
 gwen davis, american novelist;

h.
 h. l. davis (1894 1960), novelist and poet;
 hal davis, american songwriter and music producer;
 harold davis, one of several people including;
harold a. davis, pulp fiction author working under the pseudonym kenneth robeson, 1930s, 1940s;
harold davis (football) (born c. 1938), american quarterback;
 harry davis (baseball player);
 harry l. davis, american politician;
 heath davis;
 henry davis, one of several people including;
henry davis (performer), american broadway singer and actor;
henry g. davis (1823 1916), american senator from west virginia and democratic vice presidential candidate;
henry hague davis, canadian judge;
henry william banks davis, british painter;
henry winter davis (1817 1865), american congressman from maryland and radical republican ;
 herbert davis;
 herman davis, american soldier;
 hope davis, american actress;
 howard davis, american architect;
 howard davis jr., american boxer;
 howard davis (athlete), jamaican athlete;
 howell davis, pirate;
 hubert davis, american basketball player;

i.
 ian davis, british executive at mckinsey & company;
 ian davis (cricketer), australian cricketer;
 ian mcnaught-davis, british television presenter;

j.
 jack davis, one of several people including;
jack davis (actor) (1914 1992);
jack davis (athlete) (born 1930), olympic hurdler;
jack davis (australian rules footballer) (born c.1910);
jack davis (canadian politician);
jack davis (cartoonist) (born 1924);
jack davis (outlaw), american western outlaw;
jack davis (playwright) (1917 2000);
jack davis (politician) (born 1935), illinois;
 jamar davis, basketball player;
 jamelia davis, british r&b singer jamelia;
 james davis, one of several people including;
james davis (critic), anglo-irish theatre critic who wrote scripts under the name owen hall;
james davis (director), early u.s. film director;
james davis (football player);
james davis (texas politician);
james davis (vc);
james e. davis, new york city councilman who was assassinated on july 23 2003;
james e. davis (police), los angeles chief of police, 1926 1931;
james j. davis, u.s. secretary of labor;
james peter davis , american catholic bishop;
 jamie davis, british actor;
 jan davis, american astronaut;
 janet davis, canadian politician;
 jasen t. davis, writer for skinnie magazine, in california;
 jason davis (american football), american football player;
 jason thomas davis;
 javal davis;
 jayna davis, american broadcast journalist;
 jed davis, american musician;
 jeff davis, one of several people including;
jeff davis (comedian) (born 1973);
jeff davis (football), american football player;
 jefferson davis, president of the confederate states of america ;
 jefferson davis (arkansas governor), "jeff" davis, (1862 1913), governor of arkansas and u.s. senator;
 jefferson c. davis, (jefferson columbus davis, 1828 1879), american civil war union general, military commander of alaska;
 jerome davis, american sociologist and labor organizer;
 jesse davis, american jazz saxophonist;
 jesse ed davis;
 jessica and jesse davis, american twin actors;
 jehu davis;
 jim davis (actor);
 jim davis (cartoonist), creator of "garfield" comic strip;
 jim davis (musician), member of the one condition;
 jim davis (politician), u.s. representative from florida;
 jimmie davis, singer, governor of louisiana;
 jimmy davis (footballer), manchester united footballer;
 jo ann davis, american politician;
 joan davis, american actress;
 jody davis, american baseball player;
 joe davis, british snooker player;
 joe w. davis (politician), american mayor;
 john davis, one of several people including;
john davis (american producer), u.s. film producer;
john davis (australian politician) (1817 1893), pastoralist in colonial western australia;
john davis (baseball) (1915-2002);
john davis (buccaneer), english buccaneer;
john davis (eastenders), a character in eastenders;
 john davis (english explorer) (c. 1550 1605), an english navigator and explorer;
john davis (kansas politician) (1826 1901), u.s. representative from kansas;
john davis (massachusetts governor) (1787-1854);
john davis (sealer), american who claimed to have first set foot on antarctica;
john davis (singer/songwriter), former member of  superdrag ;
john davis (texas politician), texas state senator, 1923 1927;
john davis (weightlifter), (1921-1984), u.s. olympian, gold medalist;
sir john davis (1906 1993), film producer, chairman of the rank organisation;
john a. davis, american animator;
john adelbert davis, american founder of what is now davis college;
john caswell davis, canadian politician;
john e. davis (north dakota politician) (1913 1990), governor of north dakota, 1957 1961;
john e. davis (texas politician), member of the texas house of representatives, 1999 to present;
john francis davis (1795 1890), governor of hong kong;
john j. davis;
john w. davis (1873 1955), democratic u.s. presidential candidate, 1924;
john wesley davis;
john davis (1988-2006), influential member of the american nazi party;
 johnny davis;
 jonathan davis, american singer;
 jonathan davis, known as q-tip (rapper);
 josh davis, one of several people including;
dj shadow, turntablist musician;
josh davis (basketball), professional basketball player;
josh davis (swimmer), 3-time olympic gold medalist swimmer;
 judy davis (born 1955), actress;
 julia davis, british comedy writer;
 justin davis, pretty much the coolest kid ever. www.myspace.com/justinxdavis;

k.
 kane davis, american baseball player;
 karen davis (disambiguation), one of several people including;
karen davis, american animal rights activist;
karen davis (singer), messianic singer and worship leader from carmel, israel;
 keeley davis, american musician;
 keith davis, american football player;
 kelvin davis, english footballer;
 kenneth davis, american football player;
 kenneth c. davis, writer;
 kenneth s. davis, american historian and biographer;
 kertus davis, american racing driver;
 kingsley davis, american sociologist;
 kira vincent-davis, american voice actor;
 kristin davis, american actress;

l.
 larry davis, american baptist minister;
 leon davis, one of several people including;
leon davis (footballer), aboriginal australian rules footballer;
leon j. davis, polish-born politician and american labor leader;
 leonard davis, american football player;
 lillian hall-davis, british actress;
 lincoln davis, american politician ;
 linda davis, country singer.
 lindsey davis, british author, best known for crime novels featuring the roman "detective", marcus didius falco;
 g. lindsey davis, american methodist bishop;
 louis davis, british artist;
 lucy davis, british actress;
 luther davis, american dramatic writer;
 lydia davis, american writer;

m.
 mac davis, american singer-songwriter;
 makeda davis, american mezzo soprano;
 marc davis (disambiguation), one of several people including;
marc davis (marc fraser davis; 1913-2000), animator at walt disney studios;
marc davis (uc berkeley astronomy), american astrophysicist ;
marc davis (uc berkeley school of information), american professor in the uc berkeley school of information;
 marion davis, accused spy marion davis berdecio;
 mark davis (baseball);
 mark davis (nbl), american basketball player with career in australia;
 mark davis (porn actor);
 mark davis (talk show host);
 mark anthony davis, basketball player;
 martin davis, american mathematician;
 martin davis (tennis);
 marvin davis, american businessman;
 matthew davis, american actor;
 matthew davis (footballer), australian rules footballer;
 maura davis, american rock singer;
 michael davis, one of several people including;
michael davis (director) (born 1961), film director, writer, producer;
michael davis (footballer), australian rules footballer for carlton;
michael davis (magazine publisher);
michael davis (musician), jazz musician;
michael davis (philosopher), philosopher of law and ethics, author, and professor of philosophy;
michael davis, discovered the millisecond pulsar psr1937+214 ;
michael davis, member of the band mc5;
j. michael davis, american games company executive;
michael j. davis, american judge;
michael m. davis, (1879 1971), major figure in health care policy;
mike davis (american football), american nfl football player, 1978 1985;
mike davis (baseball player);
mike davis (coach) (born 1960), men s basketball coach of the uab blazers, formerly with indiana university;
mike davis (journalist), british mountain biking journalist;
mike davis (scholar), american social commentator, urban theorist and sociographer;
 mike davis (wrestler);
 mildred davis, american actress;
 miles davis, jazz trumpeter;
 miles henry davis, american dentist, father of trumpeter miles davis;
 miles hunt-davis, secretary to prince philip;
 mitch davis, american film director;
 moll davis, mistress of charles ii of england;
 monnett bain davis, american diplomat;
 morris davis, united states air force prosecutor;
 mortimer davis, canadian businessman;

n.
 nancy davis, later nancy reagan, first lady;
 nancy jan davis, american astronaut;
 natalie zemon davis, american feminist historian;
 nathaniel davis, american politician;
 neil davis, australian photojournalist;
 t. neil davis;
 neriah davis, american model;
 nick davis, one of several people including;
nick davis (footballer), australian rules footballer with the sydney swans and collingwood;
nick davis (producer);

o.
 olive may davis, as olive osmond mother to members of the osmonds;
 ossie davis, american actor and activist;
 otis davis, american athlete;
 owen davis, american dramaturge;
 owen davis, jr., american actor;

p.
 paige davis, american actress;
 patti davis, american writer, daughter of ronald and nancy reagan;
 paul davis, one of several people including;
paul davis (basketball) (born 1984), college basketball center for the michigan state spartans;
paul davis (draughts player), american draughts/checkers player;
paul davis (footballer) (born 1961), english footballer;
paul davis (happy mondays), keyboard player for manchester group happy mondays;
paul davis (programmer), british programmer;
paul davis (sailer), norwegian sailor;
paul davis (singer) (born 1948), american singer;
paul davis (stargate), fictional character in the stargate sg-1 television series;
 paulina kellogg wright davis, american activist;
 pauline davis, bahamian sprinter;
 percival davis;
 peter davis;
 peter davis (new zealand);
 phil davis, british actor;
 philip davis, australian politician;
 philip j. davis, american mathematician;
 phineas davis, american inventor;
 priscilla davis, fort worth, texas socialite;

r.
 rainy davis, singer;
 rashied davis, american football player;
 ray davis, one of several people including;
 general ray davis (u.s. marine) (1915-2003), medal of honor recipient   hero of the battle of chosin reservoir (korean war);
ray davis (musician) (1940-2005), american singer, member of the parliaments, parliament and funkadelic;
 raymond davis jr., american physicist;
 rebecca harding davis;
 rece davis, american television journalist;
 rennie davis, american activist;
 richard davis;
 richard allen davis, american convicted murderer;
 richard harding davis, american writer and journalist;
 rick davis, american soccer player;
 ricky davis, american basketball player;
 rob davis, british guitarist;
 rob davis (ontario politician), canadian politician;
 robert davis, one of several people including;
robert davis of new orleans, who was beaten by three police officers in new orleans shortly after hurricane katrina;
robert davis (inventor), inventor of the oxygen rebreather;
robert davis (ukip), ukip parliamentary candidate in wycombe;
robert a. davis, premier of manitoba from 1874-1878;
robert l. davis, (1893-1967) us congressman from pennsylvania;
 rodney m. davis, us marine;
 roger davis, one of several people including;
roger davis (cricketer);
roger davis (film actor);
roger davis (rent) (fictional character from the musical rent);
roger davis (television actor);
 ron davis, american baseball player;
 roquel billy davis;
 rupert hart-davis, british publisher;
 russell davis, american football player;

s.
 s. c. h. "sammy" davis, british journalist;
 sam davis, figure of the american civil war;
 sammy davis, sr.;
 sammy davis, jr. ;
 sammy l. davis, american soldier;
 scoobie davis, blogger ;
 scott davis, one of several people including;
scott davis (cyclist), australian cyclist;
scott davis (skater), american figure skater;
scott davis (tennis player), american tennis player;
 sean davis, english footballer;
 sean davis (porn star), australian porn actor;
 shan\e9sia davis-williams, american actress;
 shani davis, american speedskater;
 sid davis, american film director;
 simon davis;
 simon davis (mathematician);
 skeeter davis, american singer;
 sol davis;
 spencer davis (born 1941), british r&b musician;
 spud davis;
 stanley stewart davis, british pharmacologist  ;
 stephen davis, american football player;
 stephen davis (music journalist);
 steve davis, british snooker player;
 steve davis (drummer), american jazz drummer;
 steve davis (trombonist);
 steve davis (umpire), australian cricket umpire;
 steven davis, northern irish footballer;
 stingray davis (born 1942), musician ;
 stringer davis, british actor;
 stuart davis (musician);
 stuart davis (painter) (1894-1954);
 w. sumner davis, american writer on global warming;
 susan davis;

t.
 tj davis, british singer;
 tamra davis;
 te ahu davis;
 teddy davis, american journalist;
 terrell davis, american football player;
 terry davis;
 theodore m. davis;
 thomas davis, one of several people including;
thomas davis (football player), carolina panthers football player;
thomas davis (musician) american school teacher and jazz composer;
thomas davis (texas politician);
thomas f. davis (1804-1871), episcopal bishop;
thomas m. davis american politician;
thomas osborne davis (irish politician), irish writer and politician;
thomas osborne davis (parliamentarian), canadian parliamentarian;
 tim davis (football coach), american football coach;
tom davis (basketball), noted college basketball coach at several schools, notably boston college and iowa;
tom davis (comedian) american comedian and comic writer;
tom davis (cook islands), cook island prime minister and former nasa researcher;
tom davis (professor), whitman college professor of philosophy;
 tommy davis;
 tony davis;
 travis kyle davis, american actor;
 trina mcgee-davis, american actress;
 troy davis, american football ;
 tyrone davis (1938-2005), musician;

v.
 vaginal davis, drag queen;
 valerie davis, fictional character from passions;
 vernon davis, american football player;
 victor davis, canadian swimmer;
 virginia davis;
 viveka davis, american actress;

w.
 wade davis;
 walter davis, one of several people including;
walter davis (athletics), triple-jumper;
walter davis (basketball);
walter davis (blues), blues singer and pianist;
walter davis, jr., jazz pianist;
walter "buddy" davis, high-jumper;
 wantha davis, american jockey;
 warren davis (canadian journalist);
 warren r. davis, american lawyer and politician;
 warwick davis;
 westmoreland davis, american lawyer and politician;
 wild bill davis, musician;
 william davis, one of several people including;
william davis (australian politician);
william davis (basketball player), member of "the first team";
william davis (journalist) (1969 1977), editor of punch;
william b. davis, actor, professor, and waterskier;
william bodean davis, musician from baton rouge, louisiana;
william c. davis, canadian politician;
dr william e. b. davis (1863 1903), pioneer gynecologist;
william heath davis, californian settler;
william morris davis, american geographer;
 willie davis, one of several people including;
willie davis (american football);
willie davis (baseball player);
 winston davis, cricketer from st vincent;

z.
 zelma davis, liberian singer;

see also.
 davis;
 the davis sisters, gospel group;
 davies;
 davys;
 o'davis;
 davison;







</doc>
<doc id="7126860" title="henry foley" nonfiltered="285" processed="281" dbindex="286">
for the homonymous new zealand cricket player, see harry foley;
brother henry foley was an english roman catholic church historian.

biography.
he was born at astley in worcestershire, england on 9 august 1811; died at manresa house, roehampton, 19 november 1891. his father was the protestant curate in charge at astley. after his early education at home and at a private school at woodchester, henry was articled to a firm of solicitors in worcester, and in course of time practised as a solicitor, at first in partnership with another, then by himself.
 
under the influence of the oxford movement he was led to embrace the catholic faith in 1846, and five years later, on the death of his wife anne, daughter of john vezard of gloucestershire, he sought admission as a lay brother into the society of jesus. urged to enter as a scholastic and to prepare for the priesthood, he said it was our lady's wish that he should be a lay brother. for thirty years he occupied the post of lay brother socius to the english provincial superior.
 
during that time he produced his gigantic work, "the records of the english province of the society of jesus" (8 octavo volumes), a compilation of immense labour and original research and an invaluable store of historical detail put together with a persevering assiduity rarely found even in the most painstaking of historians. brother foley deserves to share with father henry more the title of historian of the society. he also wrote "jesuits in conflict", a work describing the sufferings of some of the english jesuit confessors of the faith.
 
as a religious, brother foley was a model of every virtue. his bodily austerities were remarkable, while his spirit of prayer led him at all free moments to the chapel.
 
souce.
 ;

</doc>
<doc id="6291219" title="parabita" nonfiltered="286" processed="282" dbindex="287">

parabita is a town and comune in the italian province of lecce in the apulia region of south-east italy.

history.


















</doc>
<doc id="198299" title="maundy money" nonfiltered="287" processed="283" dbindex="288">
maundy money is a special british coinage given to deserving poor people in a religious ceremony performed by anglicans on maundy thursday, the thursday before easter.

 history of the maundy ceremony . 
the present-day maundy ceremony has evolved over the centuries and bears little relationship to the original rites to which it owes its origins. a fundamental aspect of the original maundy service was the washing of the feet of the poor, which has its origins in jesus' washing of the feet of the disciples at the last supper. in early ceremonies, senior clergymen would wash the feet of lower clergy, while in other ceremonies, the washing would be done by someone higher up the hierarchical order.

king edward ii (1307 1327) seems to be the first english monarch to have been recorded actively taking part in the ceremony, although king john (1199 1216) is said to have taken part in a ceremony in about 1210, donating small silver coins to the poor. king edward iii (1327 1377) washed feet and gave gifts including money to the poor; the practice continued regularly, with the participation of the monarch, until 1698. 

although the monarch did not participate personally, later ceremonies continued in which a selection of people were given maundy money consisting of silver pennies totalling, in pence, the current age of the monarch. the washing of feet ended after the 1736 ceremony, until it was re-instated in the 2003 ceremony, when it was performed by the new archbishop of canterbury, dr. rowan williams.

in 1932, king george v agreed to take part personally in the distribution of the maundy money, while the 1936 set was distributed by king edward viii, although the coins bore george v's effigy. by 1953 it had become normal practice for the monarch to distribute the maundy money, a practice which continues to this day.

 maundy coinage .
until 1820 ordinary silver coinage was used for the maundy money, but from 1822 special coins were minted in values of 1, 2, 3, and 4 pence. each set of maundy money therefore contains 10 pence, and recipients would be given an appropriate number of complete sets, plus a part-set when appropriate.

the dimensions and reverse designs of the coins have not changed since 1822, although their composition has changed over the years (not necessarily in ways which would be expected):

1 penny : weight 0.5 grams, diameter 11 millimetres.
2 pence : weight 0.9 grams, diameter 13 millimetres.
3 pence : weight 1.4 grams, diameter 16 millimetres.
4 pence : weight 1.9 grams, diameter 18 millimetres.

the original composition of the coins was sterling (0.925) silver. in common with all circulating british silver coins, the fineness was reduced to 0.500 in 1921. in 1947, silver was removed from all circulating british coins in favour of cupronickel, but it was felt to be inappropriate to strike maundy money in such debased metal, so unusually the fineness was restored to 0.925, where it remains to the present day.

in 1971, british currency was decimalised, with 100 new pence instead of 20 shillings of 12 pence (240 pence) in a pound. the design of the maundy money was not changed at all, so instead of being worth 1, 2, 3, or 4 old pence, the coins are now worth 1, 2, 3, or 4 new pence, each one being worth 2.4 times its former value. as there is no difference in the design or weight between pre- and post-1971 coins, it was uniquely decided to revalue all pre-decimal maundy coins back to 1822 at the equivalent value in new pence, i.e. the face value of each coin was increased by a factor of 2.4 overnight. all maundy coins, back to 1822, remain legal tender in britain at their stated value in new pence.

 availability of the coins .
victorian maundy coins are quite common, as anybody could order a set from a bank, however in 1908, king edward vii ordered that they should only be supplied to their recipients and people connected with the service, so coins dated 1909 and later are considerably scarcer than those which preceded them although of course the quantity increases as the monarch ages. (in 2006 queen elizabeth ii turned 80, and thus 80 men and 80 women each received 80 pence in maundy money on april 13.). this year, they also received a special \a35 coin which commemorated her 80th birthday as well as a 50p coin commemorating 150 years of the victoria cross.

under a special privilege granted by queen elizabeth i, students in the youngest class of westminster school also received maundy coins, but this was discontinued in the 1970s.

maundy coins, in proof condition, were sold as part of a special silver proof set of all united kingdom coins in 2000.  they were also sold in gold as part of a special gold proof set of all united kingdom coins in 2002, as part of the golden jubilee observances.

 coin obverses .
1822 1830   left-facing head of king george iv. georgius iiii d g britanniar rex f d (george iv by the grace of god king of britain, defender of the faith).
1831 1837   right-facing head of king william iv. gulielmus iiii d g britanniar rex f d (william iv by the grace of god king of britain, defender of the faith).
1838 1887   left-facing "young head" of queen victoria. victoria d g britanniar regina f d (victoria by the grace of god queen of britain, defender of the faith).
1888 1892   left-facing "jubilee head" of queen victoria. victoria d g britanniar regina f d (victoria by the grace of god queen of britain, defender of the faith).
1893 1901   left-facing "old head" of queen victoria. victoria dei gra britt regina fid def ind imp (victoria by the grace of god queen of britain, defender of the faith, empress of india).
1902 1910   right-facing head of king edward vii. edwardvs vii d g britt omn rex f d ind imp (edward vii by the grace of god king of all the britains, defender of the faith, emperor of india).
1911 1936   left-facing head of king george v. georgivs v d g britt omn rex f d ind imp (george v by the grace of god king of all the britains, defender of the faith, emperor of india).
1937 1948   left-facing head of king george vi. georgivs vi d g br omn rex f d ind imp (george vi by the grace of god king of all the britains, defender of the faith, emperor of india).
1949 1952   left-facing head of king george vi. georgivs vi d g br omn rex fidei def (george vi by the grace of god king of all the britains, defender of the faith).
1953   right-facing head of queen elizabeth ii. elizabeth ii dei gra britt omn regina f d (elizabeth ii by the grace of god queen of all the britains, defender of the faith).
1954 current   right-facing head of queen elizabeth ii. elizabeth ii dei gratia regina f d (elizabeth ii by the grace of god queen, defender of the faith).

note that the "young head" of queen elizabeth (by mary gillick) has been used on all maundy coins of her reign, despite it not having been used on regular circulation coins since decimalization.

reference.
coincraft's standard catalogue english & uk coins 1066 to date, richard lobel, coincraft. isbn 0-9526228-8-2;



</doc>
<doc id="5488149" title="viggiano" nonfiltered="288" processed="284" dbindex="289">
 

for other uses, see viggiano (disambiguation)

geography.
viggiano is a town and comune in the province of potenza, in the southern italian region of basilicata. it is bounded by the comuni of calvello, corleto perticara, grumento nova, laurenzana, marsicovetere, montemurro.

























</doc>
<doc id="9878" title="everway" nonfiltered="289" processed="285" dbindex="290">

everway is a fantasy role-playing game first published by wizards of the coast under their alter ego brand in the mid-1990s. its lead designer was jonathan tweet.  marketed as a "visionary roleplaying game", it has often characterized as an innovative piece with a limited commercial success. wizards later abandoned the line, and rubicon games purchased it, and published several supplements. the line was sold again to gaslight press in february 2001.

the game has a fantasy setting of the multiverse type, with many different worlds, some of which differed from generic fantasy. it appeares to have been heavily influenced by divinatory tarot, the four classical elements of ancient greece, and mythologies from around the world.

everway was first with implementing, in a commercial game, several new concepts including much more picture-based/visual source material and character creation than usual. like other works by jonathan tweet, the rules are very simple and flexible. it is also one of a few diceless role-playing games.  although the fortune deck works as a randomizer, the results obtained by it are entirely arbitrary and subjective, and the gm's absolute power over the game is further emphasized by the three resolution systems: karma (the higher character ability wins, modified by situation), drama (the gm decides what happens, by what they think most appropriate), and fortune (more or less the same as the above, with interpretation flavored by a card draw). the original edition contained the "fortune" deck of thirty-six cards, used for "divination" and action-resolution, as well as ninety "vision" cards used as source material. the cards were illustrated by scott kirschner and jeff miracola. the box also had three books of source material and gameplaying tips.

 external links .
 everway section of gaslight press' web site;
 yahoo! everway mailing list;
 everwiki (closed for editing);
 everweb;








</doc>
<doc id="5411455" title="calciphylaxis" nonfiltered="290" processed="286" dbindex="291">


calciphylaxis is a syndrome of vascular calcification and skin necrosis. it is seen almost exclusively in patients with end stage renal disease.  it results in chronic non-healing wounds and requires parathyroidectomy and hyperbaric therapy.

calciphlaxis is a rare but serious disease. 

what is it?.

calciphylaxis is characterised by

 systemic medial calcification of the arteries, ie calcification of tunica media. unlike other forms of vascular calcifications (eg, intimal, medial, valvular), calciphylaxis is characterised also by;
 small vessel mural calcification with or without endovascular fibrosis, extravascular calcification and vascular thrombosis, leading to tissue ischaemia (including skin ischaemia and, hence, skin necrosis). ;

the cause is not known. it does not seem to be an immune type reaction. in other words, calciphylaxis is not only a hypersensitivity reaction (= allergic reaction) leading to sudden local calcification. clearly, additional factors are involved in calciphylaxis. it possibly could be described as calcific uraemic arteriolopathy.

calciphylaxis is one type of extraskeletal calcification. similar extraskeletal calcifications are observed in some patients with hypercalcaemic states, including patients with milk alkali syndrome, sarcoidosis, primary hyperparathyroidism, and hypervitaminosis d. 

who is affected?.

calciphylaxis most commonly occurs in patients with end-stage renal disease who are on haemodialysis or who have recently received a renal transplant (= kidney transplant). yet, calciphylaxis does not occur only in end-stage renal disease patients. it also has been reported in patients with breast cancer (treated with chemotherapy), liver cirrhosis (due to alcohol abuse), cholangiocarcinoma, crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis (ra), and systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) (including sle patients with or without chronic renal disease). 

diagnosis.

there is no diagnostic test for calciphylaxis. the diagnosis is a clinical one. the characteristic lesions are the ischaemic skin lesions (usually with areas of skin necrosis). they should alert the physician or nurse. 

the necrotic skin lesions (ie, the dying or already dead skin areas) typically appear as violaceous (dark bluish purple) lesions and/or completely black leathery lesions. they can be extensive.

the suspected diagnosis can be confirmed by a skin biopsy. it shows arterial calcification and occlusion in the absence of vasculitis. 

treatment.

the optimal treatment is prevention. rigorous and continuous control of phosphate and calcium balance most probably will avoid the metabolic changes which may lead to calciphylaxis. 

there is no specific treatment. of the treatments that exist, none is internationally recognised as the standard of care. an acceptable treatment could include: 

dialysis (the number of sessions may be increased);
intensive wound care;
adequate pain control;
correction of the underlying plasma calcium and phosphorus abnormalities (lowering the ca x p product below 55 mg2/dl2);
avoiding (further) local tissue trauma (including avoiding all subcutaneous injections, and all not-absolutely-necessary infusions and transfusions);
urgent parathyroidectomy: ???. the efficacy of this measure remains uncertain although calciphylaxis is associated with frank hyperparathyroidism. urgent parathyroidectomy may benefit those patients who have uncontrollable plasma calcium and phosphorous concentrations despite dialysis. also, cinacalcet can be used and may serve as an alternative to parathyroidectomy. the trade name of cinacalcet is sensipar or mimpara.
patients who receive kidney transplants also receive immunosuppression. considering lowering the dose of or discontinuing the use of immunosuppressive drugs in renal transplant patients who continue to have persistent or progressive calciphylactic skin lesions can contribute to an acceptable treatment of calciphylaxis.

response to treatment.

unfortunately, response to treatment is not guaranteed. also, the necrotic skin areas may get infected, and this then may lead to sepsis (ie, infection of blood with bacteria; sepsis can be life-threatening) in some patients. overall, the clinical prognosis remains poor.

who to contact?.

the correct person to ask questions about calciphylaxis is a nephrology fellow or a professor of nephrology.

external links.
 dermnet nz: calciphylaxis;








</doc>
<doc id="5558825" title="zuras" nonfiltered="291" processed="287" dbindex="292">


zuras is a fictional character appearing in the marvel comics universe.  he is a member of the eternals.

fictional character biography.
zuras is the son of the eternals kronos and daina, and brother of a'lars.  with his wife cybele, he has a daughter thena.

zuras was the first eternal to form a uni-mind, and was chosen by the eternals to lead them following kronos' death. he was mistaken for the greek god zeus many times in the past, and ultimately forged a pact with zeus to keep their people at peace. when kro spread chaos in the 1940s, zuras sent makkari to oppose him. he also forced the forgotten one into exile, stripped him of his name, and forbade the eternals from communicating with him. zuras appears to have been well-traveled, since his quarters in olympia were decorated with a jukebox, two six-shooters and battle-axes.

zuras authorized thena to resume her battles against the deviants, and ordered her to battle against zakka in new york.  he also aided mr. bradford, a government agent, in studying the celestials. zuras allied himself with odin in his assault on the 4th host of celestials, and formed the uni-mind for battle. however, the uni-mind was blown apart by the celestials, and the backlash killed zuras. even then, zuras' spirit continued to exist within his body, until his body was finally destroyed by freeing thena from a brain-mine. zuras' spirit still seems to exist, as it has appeared at times within olympia, such as when ikaris challenged thena for the title of prime eternal.

the eternals (2006) .


more recently, zuras has briefly appeared in the new marvel mini-series the eternals, written by neil gaiman. 

sprite states that he used the machineries of olympia to partially "reactivate" zuras - and then deceived zuras into visiting the tomb of the dreaming celestial, forming a uni-mind there. this provided sprite with the power he needed to rewrite some aspects of reality, stripping the other eternals of their powers and memories. sprite also stated that he considers zuras to be the most powerful of the eternals.

in the "rewritten" world, zuras was made into an alcoholic homeless man, with mental problems.  he was, however, restored by ajak.


notes.
for the actual zeus, see zeus.

bibliography.
captain marvel vol. 1 #29;
eternals annual #1;
eternals vol. 1 #5, 9-18;
eternals vol. 2 #4, 9;
eternals: herod factor;
iron man annual #5;
red raven #1;
thor vol. 1 #285, 287-289, 291-292, 300-301;
what if? vol. 1 #25;

external links.
immortalthor.net: zuras;
zuras at marveldirectory.com;





















</doc>
<doc id="419585" title="hethumids" nonfiltered="292" processed="288" dbindex="293">
the hethumids were the rulers of armenia from 1226 to 1373. hethum i, the first of the hethumids, came to power when he married queen isabella of armenia who had inherited the throne from her father.

 hethum (or hetoum) i (1226-1270);
 leo iii (1270-1289) - son of hethum i;
 hethum ii (1289-1293) - son of leo iii;
 thoros iii (1293-1298) - son of leo iii;
 hethum ii (1294-1297);
 sempad (1297-1299) - son of leo iii;
 constantine iii (1299) - son of leo iii;
 hethum ii (1299-1307);
 leo iv (1301-1307) (joint ruler) - son of thoros iii;
 oshin (1307-1320) - son of leo iii;
 leo v (1320-1341) - son of oshin;
 constantine v (1344-1362) - great-nephew of hethum i;
 constantine vi (1362-1373) - cousin of constantine v;

(constantine iv, a de lusignan, ruled armenia from 1342 to 1344.)




</doc>
<doc id="9316022" title="ocular digital" nonfiltered="293" processed="289" dbindex="294">


ocular digital is a live concert dvd released by the american christian metal band tourniquet in 2003. the "flevo 2001" tracks were recorded live at the flevo festival in eindhoven, holland on august 17, 2001.
the "escodino 1991" tracks were recorded live at the kit carson amphitheater in escondido, california on june 29, 1991. it was the first tourniquet show ever. as a bonus the dvd includes the promotional music video for the song "ark of suffering" from the album stop the bleeding. 

track listing.
flevo 2001.
 "live at flevo 2001"   ;
 "ark of suffering"   ;
 "white knucklin' the rosary"   ;
 "pathogenic ocular dissonance"   ;
 "bearing gruesome cargo"   ;
 "drum solo"   ;
 "broken chromosomes"   ;
 "a dog's breakfast"   ;
escondido 1991.
 "live in escondido, ca"   ;
 "ark of suffering"   ;
 "the test for leprosy"   ;
 "tears of korah"   ;
 "swarming spirits"   ;
 "somnambulism"   ;
 "whitewashed tomb"   ;
 "drum solo "  ;
 "harlot widow and the virgin bride" ;
extras.  
 "ark of suffering" (music video);




</doc>
<doc id="3094108" title="harvey ward" nonfiltered="294" processed="290" dbindex="295">
harvey grenville ward (1927 1995) was born in southern rhodesia to an english father and a german mother. his parents went as european settlers in africa and were engaged in enterprises such as the financing of railroad construction and the building of numerous hotels.  his parents owned and the family resided in the victoria falls hotel.  in his adult life, ward became known for his anti-communism and for his support of white minority rule  in rhodesia and south africa.

harvey ward chose a career in journalism, in which time he was a sports editor, foreign correspondent, and political columnist.  he eventually became director-general of the rhodesian broadcasting corporation (today's zimbabwe broadcasting corporation) which, in effect, put him in charge of government propaganda.  ward is said to have removed references to black sporting achievements from sports programmes carried on state television (the herald, 6 april 1999).

following an armed insurrection and several years of negotiations, the white minority government of rhodesia was replaced by african majority rule in 1979-80.  ward described this as "the betrayal of western nations to their own kin".  as a prominent supporter of the white minority government, ward was forced to leave the new country of zimbabwe.  he and his family departed for south africa, and advised the white minority government there on avoiding international economic sanctions.

subsequently, harvey ward served as a political adviser to many african leaders and was involved in international intelligence. his watch-word became "dedicated to fighting communism" and he travelled world-wide lecturing on counter-insurgency and terrorism. he described the soviet union as run by "gangsters" and totally untrustworthy.

he supported the anti-communist revolts in the former soviet bloc saying that it was "a simple matter of good versus evil".  in africa, ward saw no hope. "africa is the most exploited of all the continents, and it will stay that way. there has never been any peace in africa, and i see no end to tribal conflict, spreading of diseases and other plagues", he said.

harvey ward was the centre of a minor sensation in on the 26 july 1977 when immigration officials at heathrow airport held him for seven hours, before formally refusing him permission to enter britain, and placing him on board another plane to munich. he was due to address a meeting of the africa committee of the conservative monday club at the house of lords, organised by the former tory m.p.,harold soref, on the 29th, and visit family in gloucestershire. on being asked why entry had never been refused on previous journeys to britain by mr.ward, a home office spokesman said "i don't know. it may have been a mistake or oversight". formal protests were made to the home office by tory m.p.'s john biggs-davison, patrick wall, and teddy taylor. (daily telegraph, and daily mail, 27 july 1977).

in 1986, his wife died and though three of his four children lived in south africa, ward decided to move on to britain.

at the october 1988 conservative party conference, western goals (uk) held a fringe meeting on the subject of "international terrorism - how the west can fight back". harvey ward, sir alfred sherman, rev martin smyth, mp, and andrew hunter, mp, were the speakers. the latter spoke concerning top-level links between the ira and anc.

in 1989, harvey ward was working for his old friend james gibb stuart at ossian books ltd., in glasgow. he continued to travel and lecture, and joined the conservative party.  he was an active member of the foreign affairs committee of the conservative monday club.

ward was a supporter of the western goals institute. 

in 1991, ward worked in conjunction with south african security policeman paul erasmus to secretly leak false accusations against winnie mandela and her daughters, accusing them of being nymphomaniacs and drug abusers.  the reports were described as having come from dissidents in the african national congress, and were issued in an effort to divide the anc's leadership.  they were subsequently taken up by papers such as the independent, the sunday times and vanity fair.  erasmus later acknowledged profound regret for his actions in this and other matters, and affected a reconciliation with mandela.  he revealed ward's role in the propaganda campaign during the late 1990s (irish times, 27 march 1999).

in the early 1990s, ward's fourth child, who had been in the british police service returned to live in south africa and ward followed, taking up residence in port elizabeth, where he later had a heart attack during a game of bowls, and died.

further reading.
 young european newsletter, december 1988 edition, published by western goals (uk), london.
 interview in neosho daily news missouri, u.s.a.,19 july 1990.
 ward, harvey, sanctions buster, glasgow, 1982. isbn 0-85335-251-8.







</doc>
<doc id="8089583" title="plantet" nonfiltered="295" processed="291" dbindex="296">
plantet is a red wine grape that is a hybrid grape created by french hybridist albert seibel. the grape is grown primarily in the loire valley around anjou and is known for the high yields that the vine can produce. the vine is generally reliable and disease resistant, producing well even after suffering through a spring frost, however the berries tend to be difficult to crush which leads the grape to some disfavor among winemakers. the exact parentage of this hybrid is unknown but the two most popular theories are the crosses of two seibel grapes, seibel 867 x seibel 2524, and the seibel 4461 crossed with berlandieri-jacquez. 

 references .








</doc>
<doc id="6558201" title="michele cavataio" nonfiltered="296" processed="292" dbindex="297">
michele cavataio (died december 10, 1969, palermo), also known as the cobra was a powerful member of the sicilian mafia. he was the boss of the acquasanta mandamento in palermo and was a member of the first sicilian mafia commission.

early mafia career.
cavataio was seen as an exponent of a  new  mafia of americanised gangsters that appeared in the mid 1950s. after world war ii, he made his fortune selling petrol that was stolen from the italian navy. the acquasanta mafia family controlled the docks of palermo that were situated in their area. they acted as strike breakers against the dockworkers, and did not hesitate to shoot at the strikers if necessary. 

in 1955, the bosses of the acquasanta mafia clan, gaetano galatolo and nicola d alessandro were killed in a dispute over the protection rackets when the fruit and vegetable wholesale market moved from the zisa area to acquasanta, disturbing the delicate power balances within cosa nostra. the killer of galatolo was never identified, but cavataio was suspected. cavataio became the new boss of the clan and had to agree to split the profits of the wholesale market racket with the greco mafia family of ciaculli, who traditionally controlled fruit and vegetable supply to palermo wholesale market.

cavataio actively participated in what is called the  sack of palermo  during the reign of salvo lima as mayor of palermo. mafia bosses were granted building licenses through contacts with politicians. the construction boom destroyed the city's green belt and villas that gave it architectural grace, to make way for characterless and shoddily constructed apartment blocks.

first mafia war.
cavataio was one of the protagonists of the first mafia war in 1962-63. according to the pentito tommaso buscetta it was michele cavataio who deliberately escalated a dispute between different factions. the conflicted erupted over an underweight shipment of heroin. the shipment was financed by cesare manzella, the greco cousins from ciaculli and the la barbera brothers. suspicion fell on calcedonio di pisa, who had collected the heroin and had organised the transport to new york.

the case was brought before the mafia commission, but disagreement on how to handle it, led to a bloody conflict between clan s allied with the greco s, headed by salvatore ciaschiteddu greco, and clan s allied with the la barbera s   in particular when di pisa was killed on december 26, 1962. the greco s suspected the la barbera s of the attack. 

however, it had been cavataio who had killed di pisa in the knowledge that the greco s would blame the la barbera s and a war would be the result. cavataio  having his own problems with di pisa and wanting him out of the way, and on bad terms with the la barbera s as well   contrived di pisa s murder in such a way that the la barbera s would appear responsible. he kept fuelling the conflict with more bomb attacks and killings. other mafia families who resented the growing power of the sicilian mafia commission to the detriment of individual mafia families backed cavataio. 

cavataio then participated, along with buscetta and another acquasanta capo, in several car bomb attacks on the greco s and their allies, considered enemies because of their intrusion in the wholesale produce market. he was responsible for a car bomb that exploded near greco s house in ciaculli on june 30, 1963, killing seven police and military officers sent to defuse it after an anonymous phone call. the outrage over the ciaculli massacre changed the mafia war into a war against the mafia. it prompted the first concerted anti-mafia efforts by the state in post-war italy. the sicilian mafia commission was dissolved and of those mafiosi who had escaped arrest many went abroad. cavataio was arrested.

the ciaculli bombing made the other mafia clans aware of cavataio s manipulation of the mafia war. when the bomd exploded, salvatore la barbera was already dead and his brother angelo la barbera had fled to milan, where he was seriously wounded. it became clear that cavataio   and not the la barbera s   had planted the bomb and fomented much of the trouble.

killed by the mafia.
cavataio received a four year sentence at the trial of the 114 against the mafia in catanzaro in december 1968, despite an indictment for ten murders. he was sentenced for criminal association and soon left jail when in appeal his sentence was reduced to two years. however, by then the mafia had realised cavataio s double-crossing role in the mafia war. in retaliation, during a meeting in z\fcrich several top mafia bosses decided to eliminate cavataio on the instigation of salvatore ciaschiteddu greco who had come all the way from venezuela. greco had come to subscribe to buscetta s theory about how the first mafia war began.

cavataio and three of his men were killed on december 10, 1969, in the viale lazio in palermo by a mafia hit squad including bernardo provenzano, calogero bagarella (an elder brother of leoluca bagarella the brother-in-law of tot\f2 riina), emanuele d agostino of stefano bontade s santa maria di ges\f9 family and damiano caruso a soldier of giuseppe di cristina, the mafia boss of riesi. 

the killers entered the office of the construction company of girolamo moncada, the builder that previously was connected with anglo la barbera and now with cavataio. cavataio was able to shoot and kill calogero bagarella and wounding one of di cristina s men before provenzano killed him. provenzano saved the situation with his beretta 38/a submachine gun and earned himself a reputation as a mafia killer with the attack. 

the composition of the hit squad, according to buscetta, was a clear indication thet the killing had been sanctioned collectively by all the major sicilian mafia families: not only did it include calogero bagarella from corleone, and a member of stefano bontate s family in palermo, but also a soldier of giuseppe di cristina s family on the other end of sicily in riesi. the viale lazio bloodbath marked the end of a  pax mafiosa  that had reigned since the ciaculli massacre until the end of the trial of the 114.

references.
 relazione sull infiltrazione mafiosa nei cantieri navali di palermo commissione parlamentare d inchiesta sul fenomeno della mafia, 26 gennaio 1998.
excellent cadavers. the mafia and the death of the first italian republic (1995) alexander stille, vintage isbn 0-09-959491-9;
 da cosa nasce cosa. storia della mafia del 1943 a oggi (2000) alfio caruso, milan: longanesi isbn 88-304-1620-7;
reversible destiny: mafia, antimafia, and the struggle for palermo (2003) jane t. schneider & peter t. schneider, university of california press isbn 0-520-23609-2;
cosa nostra. a history of the sicilian mafia (2004) john dickie, coronet, isbn 0-340-82435-2;





</doc>
<doc id="2542237" title="check washing" nonfiltered="297" processed="293" dbindex="298">
check washing is the process of erasing checks, enabling the rewriting thereof, usually for criminal purposes such as fraudulent withdrawal from the victim's bank account.

various steps can be taken by the writer of the check to reduce the possibility of falling victim to check washing.  these include mailing checks by placing them in secured mailboxes, using secure ink dispensed from a gel, rollerball, or fountain pen, the filling in of all lines on the check, and careful scrutiny of bank statements.

the actual process of washing a check is relatively simple, and can be accomplished with basic solvents.  among many others, possible solvents include alcohol or nail polish remover.  the actual solvent is largely irrelevant   more importantly, the polarity of the solvent is important, and must match the polarity of the dye in the ink.  for example, an ink that is mostly made of a polar dye would require a polar solvent (i.e. isopropanol or acetone).  similarly, a non-polar dye would require a non-polar solvent (i.e. toluene or a similar hydrocarbon). both nail polish remover (acetone) and isopropanol are polar molecules, and are able to pull most common inks away from paper quite easily, in a matter of minutes.

video demonstration of check washing and the uniball 207 ant check washing gel pen 



</doc>
<doc id="98617" title="monastery of horezu" nonfiltered="298" processed="294" dbindex="299">

the monastery of horezu was founded in 1690 by prince constantin br\e2ncoveanu in the town of horezu, wallachia, romania. it is considered to be a masterpiece of "br\e2ncovean" style, known for its architectural purity and balance, the richness of its sculpted detail, its treatment of religious compositions, its votive portraits, and its painted decorative works.

the monastery has been inscribed by unesco on its list of world heritage sites.

external links.

 unesco world heritage list - horezu entry;
more;



















</doc>
<doc id="1764593" title="lever escapement" nonfiltered="299" processed="295" dbindex="300">
the lever escapement is a key component of the typical movement found in most mechanical wristwatches, pocket watches and many small mechanical non-pendulum clocks.  
the invention of the lever escapement is attributed to thomas mudge, and its modern form was developed by subsequent workers including breguet and massey.  it is a detached escapement, which means that the time-keeping element runs entirely free of interfernce from the escapement during a portion of the operating cycle.

the rotation of the escape wheel is controlled by the pallets.  the escape wheel has specially shaped teeth of either ratchet or club form, which interact with the two jewels called the entrance and exit pallets.  the escape wheel, except in unusual cases, has 15 teeth and is made of steel.  these pallets are attached solidly to the lever, which has at its end a fork to receive the ruby impulse pin of the balance roller.  in modern design it is common for the pallet mountings and the fork to be made as a single component.

as the escape wheel rotates, a tooth will slide across the sloping impulse plane of the entrance pallet.  this will turn the pallets about their axis, which places the exit pallet into the path of the rotating escape wheel.  thus, once the tooth leaves the impulse plane of the entrance pallet, the wheel is only able to turn a small amount (called the drop) until a tooth of the escape wheel lands on the locking face of the exit pallet.   the wheel is said to be locked on the exit pallet.  from the release from the entrance pallet to this point, the escape wheel will have turned through exactly half of the angle between two teeth.

the impulse received by the pallet as the tooth moves over the impulse face is transferred by the lever to the balance wheel via the ruby pin on the roller of the balance.  the lever moves until it rests against the banking (either solid, or a pin); it is held in this position  by the draw of the pallet jewels; this means that in order to unlock the wheel it must be turned backwards by a small amount.

after the drop, the balance wheel will rotate free of interference from the escapement until the impulse pin enters the fork again while moving in the opposite direction.  this will unlock the escapement, which releases the escape wheel so that a tooth can slide over the impulse plane of the exit pallet, which transfers an impulse via the lever to the impulse pin.  the escape wheel drops against until a tooth locks on the entrance pallet. the cycle then starts again.

 draw .
the reliability of the modern lever escapement depends upon draw; the pallets are  angled so that the escape wheel must recoil a small amount during the unlocking; this holds the lever against the banking during the detached portion of the operating cycle.  draw angle is typically about 15 degrees to the radial.

early lever escapements lacked draw (indeed some makers considered it injurious as a cause of extra friction in unlocking) as a result a jolt could result in the escapement unlocking.

 lever watch movement .
most modern mechanical watches are jeweled lever watches, using manmade ruby or sapphire jewels for the high-wear areas of the watch.  until the late 1970s, pin-lever watches were common. these are nearly identical in operation, except that the fork jewels are replaced by plain steel parts.  most pin-lever watches have no jewels, or a single, mostly useless jewel.    

mechanical movements have largely been replaced by electrically operated quartz watches which are cheaper, just as reliable and more accurate.  

how a typical lever escapement movement works: 
 
the crown and stem turn the keyless works, which when in the wind position turns the inside loops of the mainspring coil. the mainspring is inside the barrel, with the outside of the mainspring attached to the barrel. the barrel turns the center wheel once per hour   this wheel has a shaft that goes through the dial. on the dial side the cannon pinion is attached with a friction fit (allowing it to slide when setting the hands) and the minute hand is attached to the cannon pinion.  there is a small wheel driven by the minute wheel that in turn drives the hour wheel and hand once for every 12 revolutions of the minute hand.  

the center wheel drives the third wheel, which in turn drives the fourth wheel.  on most watches, the fourth wheel is geared to rotate once per minute, and on most watches with "sub seconds" (seconds on a small subdial between the center and edge of the watch) rather than the more common center seconds, the second hand is attached directly to this wheel. the fourth wheel drives the escapement wheel or escape wheel. 

the combination of hairspring stiffness and length works with the  diameter and mass of the balance wheel to precisely control the rate of the watch according to hooke's law.  depending on the watch, this process happens at an exact rate between 2.5 and 5 times per second, causing the second  hand to pulse forward 5 to 10 times per second. the speed of this process is almost independent of the rest of the watch.  more or less force (as in the difference between a fully wound mainspring and a nearly unwound) will change how far the balance wheel swings, but under normal operation will not significantly change how long it takes to complete a cycle.  

if either the effective length or strength of the hairspring are changed, or the mass or diameter of the balance are changed, the rate of the watch will change.  most watches are regulated with a moveable regulator that grips the spring at a point near the outside end, changing the effective length.  some watches have screws around the balance   by adding or removing washers under these screws, coarse adjustments to rate can be made.  some high-end "free-sprung" watches do not have a traditional regulator, instead relying on moveable weights to fine-tune the balance 

see also.
pallet fork;



</doc>
<doc id="8647115" title="riang kotang" nonfiltered="300" processed="296" dbindex="301">


riang kotang fumarole field is located near the eastern tip of flores island, indonesia. two fumarole areas are found along the saddle foot of the volcano. hot springs appear along the southwest side of the oka bay and hadang bay on the west coast.

 see also .
 list of volcanoes in indonesia;

 references .







</doc>
<doc id="1241246" title="afb bloemspruit" nonfiltered="301" processed="297" dbindex="302">
afb bloemspruit is an airbase of the south african air force. it is co-located with bloemfontein airport, and shares its runways.

the base motto is ex unite pax, (peace through unity).


 units hosted .
 16 squadron - attack helicopter squadron;
 87 helicopter flying school - helicopter training squadron;
 106 squadron - light transport reserve;
 107 squadron - light transport reserve;
 506 squadron - security services;



</doc>
<doc id="6434695" title="turkish daily news" nonfiltered="302" processed="298" dbindex="303">
the turkish daily news is a turkish daily. it was established in march 1961 and is considered turkey's first and largest english-language daily. 

it is part of the do an media group (dyh), owner of h\fcrriyet, and milliyet - two mass circulation turkish newspapers. dyh also owns many other interests in the media sector.

the current editor in chief is david judson, who also holds that position at turkish business daily referans.

recent competition to the tdn has arrived in the form of today's zaman, an offshoot of mildly islamist turkish daily zaman.

external links.
 turkishdailynews.com.tr;








</doc>
<doc id="4576681" title="laurel house railroad station" nonfiltered="303" processed="299" dbindex="304">
the laurel house station, branch mp 18.5, was built as part of the three-foot gauge kaaterskill railroad, an extension of the stony clove and catskill mountain railroad. it was built so passengers could stop there and take a horse and carriage to the laurel house, a hotel that was nearby. when it was built, it was anything but an actual station; in fact, it was nothing but a platform. when the ulster and delaware standard-gauged the railroad in 1899, it was replaced with an actual station. the branch it served would become an actual part of the railroad in 1903.

it was square shaped, and like most other stations on the u&d, had a built-in gutter. it was well operated until the late 1930s. that's when it became nothing but a flagstop, where one would have to wave a tin flag to get a train to stop. it was abandoned when the kaaterskill branch was abandoned in 1939, and eventually scrapped in 1940, along with the stony clove branch, and the hunter branch. the new york state government decided to get rid of the station, and eventually burnt it to the ground.





</doc>
<doc id="62436" title="puberty" nonfiltered="304" processed="300" dbindex="305">
puberty refers to the process of physical changes by which a child's body becomes an adult body capable of reproduction. growth accelerates in the first half of puberty and reaches completion by the end. body differences between boys and girls before puberty are almost entirely restricted to the genitalia. during puberty major differences of size, shape, composition, and function develop in many body structures and systems. the most obvious of these are referred to as secondary sex characteristics. in a strict sense, the term puberty (and this article) refers to the bodily changes of sexual maturation rather than the psychosocial and cultural aspects of adolescent development. 

adolescence is the period of psychological and social transition between childhood and adulthood. adolescence largely overlaps the period of puberty but its boundaries are less precisely defined and it refers as much to the psychosocial and cultural characteristics of development during the teen years as to the physical changes of puberty. children and young adolescents near the average age of puberty are sometimes referred to as peripubescent in medical literature.

the physical changes of puberty in girls.
breast development.
the first physical sign of puberty in girls is usually a firm, tender lump under the center of the areola(e) of one or both breasts, occurring on average at about 10 years of age. this is referred to as thelarche. by the widely used tanner staging of puberty, this is stage 2 of breast development (stage 1 is a flat, prepubertal breast). within 6-12 months, the swelling has clearly begun in both sides, softened, and can be felt and seen extending beyond the edges of the areolae. this is stage 3 of breast development. by another 12 months (stage 4), the breasts are approaching mature size and shape, with areolae and papillae forming a secondary mound. in most young women, this mound disappears into the contour of the mature breast (stage 5), although there is so much variation in sizes and shapes of adult breasts that distinguishing advanced stages is of little clinical value.

pubic hair in girls.
pubic hair is often the second unequivocal change of puberty. it is referred to as pubarche and the pubic hairs are usually visible first along the labia. the first few hairs are described as tanner stage 2. stage 3 is usually reached within another 6-12 months, when the hairs are too numerous to count and appear on the pubic mound as well. by stage 4, the pubic hairs densely fill the "pubic triangle." stage 5 refers to spread of pubic hair to the thighs and sometimes as abdominal hair upward towards the navel.  in about 15% of girls, the earliest pubic hair appears before breast development begins.

vagina, uterus, ovaries.
the mucosal surface of the vagina also changes in response to increasing levels of estrogen, becoming thicker and a duller pink in color (in contrast to the brighter red of the prepubertal vaginal mucosa). whitish secretions (physiologic leukorrhea) are a normal effect of estrogen as well. in the next 2 years following thelarche, the uterus and ovaries increase in size. the ovaries usually contain small cysts visible by ultrasound.

menstruation and fertility.
the first menstrual bleeding is referred to as menarche. the average age of menarche in american girls is about 12.7 years, usually about 2 years after thelarche. menses (menstrual periods) are not always regular and monthly in the first 2 years after menarche. ovulation is necessary for fertility, and may or may not accompany the earliest menses. by 2 years after menarche, most girls are ovulating at least several times a year. over 90% of girls who experience menarche before age 13 years are experiencing very regular, predictable menses accompanied by ovulation within 2 years, and a higher proportion of those with later menarche may not establish regular ovulation for 4 years or more.  however, initiation of ovulation after menarche is not inevitable, and a high proportion of girls with continued irregularity several years from menarche will continue to have prolonged irregularity and anovulation, and are at higher risk for reduced fertility. 

the word nubility has been proposed academically to designate achievement of fertility.

pelvic shape, fat distribution, and body composition.
during this period, also in response to rising levels of estrogen, the lower half of the pelvis widens (providing a larger birth canal).  fat tissue increases to a greater percentage of the body composition than in males, especially in the typical female distribution of breasts, hips, buttocks, thighs, upper arms, and pubis. this produces the typical female body shape.

body odor, skin changes, and acne.
rising levels of androgens can change the fatty acid composition of perspiration, resulting in a more "adult" body odor. this often precedes thelarche and pubarche by 1 or more years. another androgen effect is increased secretion of oil (sebum) from the skin. this change increases the susceptibility to acne, a characteristic affliction of puberty greatly variable in its severity.

the physical changes of puberty in boys.
testicular size, function, and fertility.
in boys, testicular enlargement is the first physical manifestation of puberty (and is termed gonadarche). testes in prepubertal boys change little in size from about 1 year of age to the onset of puberty, averaging about 2 3 cc in volume and about 1.5-2 cm in length. testicular size continues to increase throughout puberty, reaching maximal adult size about 6 years later. while 18-20 cc is reportedly an average adult size, there is wide variation in the normal population. 

the testes have two primary functions: to produce hormones and to produce sperm. the leydig cells produce testosterone (as described below), which in turn produces most of the changes of male puberty. however, most of the increasing bulk of testicular tissue is spermatogenic tissue (primarily sertoli and interstitial cells). the development of sperm production and fertility in males is not as well documented. sperm can be detected in the morning urine of most boys after the first year of pubertal changes (and occasionally earlier).

genitalia.
a boy's penis grows little from the fourth year of life until puberty. after the penile growth of early infancy the average childhood penile length is about 7 cm. the prepubertal genitalia are described as stage 1. within months after growth of the testes begins, rising levels of testosterone promote growth of the penis and scrotum. this earliest discernible beginning of pubertal growth of the genitalia is referred to as stage 2.  the penis continues to grow until about 18 years of age, reaching an average adult size of about 10-16 cm.

although erections and orgasm occur in prepubertal boys, they become much more common during puberty, accompanied by a markedly increased libido. ejaculation becomes possible early in puberty; prior to this boys may experience dry orgasms. emission of seminal fluid may occur due to masturbation or spontaneously during sleep (commonly termed a wet dream, and more clinically called a nocturnal emission). the ability to ejaculate is a fairly early event in puberty compared to the other characteristics. however, in parallel to the irregularity of the first few periods of a girl, for the first one or two years after a boy's first ejaculation, his seminal fluid may contain few active sperm.

if the foreskin of a boy does not become retractable during childhood, it normally begins to retract during puberty. this occurs as a result of the increased production of testosterone and other hormones in the body.

pubic hair in boys.
pubic hair often appears on a boy shortly after the genitalia begin to grow. as in girls, the first appearance of pubic hair is termed pubarche and the pubic hairs are usually first visible at the dorsal (abdominal) base of the penis. the first few hairs are described as stage 2. stage 3 is usually reached within another 6 12 months, when the hairs are too numerous to count. by stage 4, the pubic hairs densely fill the "pubic triangle." stage 5 refers to spread of pubic hair to the thighs and upward towards the navel as part of the developing abdominal hair.

body and facial hair in boys. 
in the months and years following the appearance of pubic hair, other areas of skin which respond to androgens develop heavier hair (androgenic hair) in roughly the following sequence: underarm (axillary) hair, perianal hair, upper lip hair, sideburn (preauricular) hair, periareolar hair, and the rest of the beard area. arm, leg, chest, abdominal, and back hair become heavier more gradually. there is a large range in amount of body hair among adult men, and significant differences in timing and quantity of hair growth among different ethnic groups.

voice change.
under the influence of androgens, the voice box, or larynx, grows in both genders. this growth is far more prominent in boys, causing the male voice to drop, sometimes abruptly but never "over night", about one octave, because the longer and thicker vocal folds have a lower fundamental frequency. voices never "break." a typical 12-year old boy's larynx is larger, even before voice change, than an adult woman's. occasionally, voice change is accompanied by unsteadiness of vocalization in the early stages of untrained voices. most of the voice change happens during stage 4 of male puberty around the time of peak growth. however, it usually precedes the development of significant facial hair by several months to years.

height growth in boys.
compared to girls' early growth spurt, growth accelerates more slowly in boys and lasts longer, resulting in a taller adult stature among males than females (on average about 10 cm or 4 inches). the difference is attributed to the much greater potency of estradiol compared to testosterone in promoting bone growth, maturation, and epiphyseal closure. in boys, growth begins to accelerate about 9 months after the first signs of testicular enlargement and the peak year of the growth spurt occurs about 2 years after the onset of puberty, reaching a peak velocity of about 8.5 12 cm or 3.5 5 inches per year. the feet and hands experience their growth spurt first, followed by the limbs, and finally ending in the trunk. epiphyseal closure and adult height are reached more slowly, at an average age of about 17.5 years.  as in girls, this last growth primarily involves the spine rather than the limbs.

male musculature and body shape.
by the end of puberty, adult men have heavier bones and nearly twice as much skeletal muscle. some of the bone growth (e.g., shoulder width and jaw) is disproportionately greater, resulting in noticeably different male and female skeletal shapes. the average adult male has about 150% of the lean body mass of an average female, and about 50% of the body fat. 

this muscle develops mainly during the later stages of puberty, and muscle growth can continue even after a male is biologically adult. the peak of the so-called "strength spurt," the rate of muscle growth, is attained about one year after a male experiences his peak growth rate.

body odor, skin changes, acne.
rising levels of androgens can change the fatty acid composition of perspiration, resulting in a more "adult" body odor. as in girls, another androgen effect is increased secretion of oil (sebum) from the skin and the resultant variable amounts of acne.


breast development in boys: pubertal gynecomastia.
estradiol is produced from testosterone in male puberty as well as female, and male breasts often respond to the rising estradiol levels. this is termed gynecomastia. in most boys, the breast development is minimal, similar to what would be termed a "breast bud" in a girl, but in many boys, breast growth is substantial. it usually occurs after puberty is underway, may increase for a year or two, and usually diminishes by the end of puberty. it is increased by extra adipose tissue if the boy is overweight.

although this is a normal part of male puberty for perhaps half of boys, breast development is usually as unwelcome as upper lip hair in girls, and can be removed surgically if the boy's distress is substantial.

variations of normal puberty.

typical puberty is described above, but many children vary with respect to timing of onset, tempo, steadiness of continuation, and sequence of events.

timing of onset.
puberty is a process with a gradual onset beginning with changes of neuronal function in the hypothalamus, resulting in rising hormonal signals between brain and gonads, proceeding to gonadal growth and production of sex steroids, which in turn induce changes in responsive parts of the body. the definition of onset, therefore, depends on the perspective (e.g., hormonal versus physical) and purpose (establishing population normal standards, clinical care of early or late children, or a variety of other social purposes). the most commonly used definition of onset for both social and medical purposes is the appearance of the first physical changes described in this section of this article, but it should be understood that these physical changes are the first outward signs of preceding neural, hormonal, and gonadal function changes that are usually impossible or impractical to detect.  

the age at which puberty begins can vary widely between individuals and between populations. age of puberty is affected by both genetic factors and by environmental factors such as nutritional state or social circumstances.  timing may also be affected by environmental factors (exogenous hormones and environmental substances with hormone-like effects) and there is even evidence that life experiences may play a role as well. 

ethnic/racial differences have been recognized for centuries. for example, the average age of menarche in various populations surveyed in the last several decades has ranged from 12.0 to 18.5 years. the earliest mean is reported for african-american girls and the oldest for high altitude subsistence populations in asia. however, it is clear that much of the higher age averages reflect nutritional limitations more than genetic differences and can change within a few generations with a substantial change in diet. the median age of menarche for a population may be an index of the proportion of undernourished girls in the population, and the width of the spread may reflect unevenness of wealth and food distribution in a population.

genetic influence on pubertal timing.
various studies have found direct genetic effects to account for at least 50% of the variation of timing of puberty in well-nourished populations. the genetic association of timing is strongest between mothers and daughters. the specific genes affecting timing are not defined yet. among the candidates are the androgen and lh receptor genes.

environmental factors affecting pubertal timing.
if genetic factors account for half of the variation of pubertal timing, environment factors are clearly important as well. one of the earliest observed environmental effects is that puberty occurs later in children raised at higher altitudes. the most important of the environmental influences is clearly nutrition, but a number of others have been identified, all which affect timing of female puberty and menarche more clearly than male puberty.

nutritional influence on pubertal timing.
nutritional factors are the strongest and most obvious environmental factors affecting timing of puberty. girls are especially sensitive to nutritional regulation because they must contribute all of the nutritional support to a growing fetus. surplus calories (beyond growth and activity requiriements) are reflected in the amount of body fat, which signals to the brain the availability of resources for initiation of puberty and fertility. 

much evidence suggests that for most of the last few centuries, nutritional differences accounted for majority of variation of pubertal timing in different populations, and even among social classes in the same population. recent worldwide increased consumption of animal protein, other changes in nutrition, and increases in childhood fatness have resulted in falling ages of puberty, mainly in those populations with the higher previous ages. in many populations the amount of variation attributable to nutrition is shrinking.

although available dietary energy (simple calories) is the most important dietary influence on timing of puberty, quality of the diet plays a role as well. lower protein intakes and higher plant fiber intakes, as occur with typical vegetarian diets, are associated with later onset and slower progression of female puberty.

studies have shown that calcium deficiency is a cause of late puberty, irregular and painful, cramping during menstration with excessive blood loss, and lowered immune response to infections in young girls.  this could be from a deficient diet or lack of vitamin d from too little sun exposure.  this lack of calcium could predispose them to osteoporosis later in life.

effect of physical activity and exercise on pubertal timing.
the average level of daily physical activity has also been shown to affect timing of puberty, especially female. a high level of exercise, whether for athletic or body image purposes, or for daily subsistence, reduces energy calories available for reproduction and slows puberty. the exercise effect is often amplified by a lower body fat mass.

effect of physical illness on pubertal timing.
many chronic diseases can delay puberty in both boys and girls. those that involve chronic inflammation or interfere with nutrition have the strongest effect. in the western world, inflammatory bowel disease and tuberculosis have been notorious for such an effect in the last century, while in areas of the underdeveloped world, chronic parasite infections are widespread.

effect of environmental chemicals and hormones on pubertal timing.
there is theoretical concern, and animal evidence, that environmental hormones and chemicals may affect aspects of prenatal or postnatal sexual development in humans. large amounts of incompletely metabolized estrogens and progestagens from pharmaceutical products are excreted into the sewage systems of large cities, and are sometimes detectable in the environment. sex steroids are sometimes used in cattle farming but have been banned in chicken meat production for 40 years. although agricultural laws regulate use to minimize accidental human consumption, the rules are largely self-enforced in the united states. significant exposure of a child to hormones or other substances that activate estrogen or androgen receptors could produce some or all of the changes of puberty.

harder to detect as an influence on puberty are the more diffusely distributed environmental chemicals like pcbs (polychlorinated biphenyl), which can bind and trigger estrogen receptors.

more obvious degrees of partial puberty from direct exposure of young children to small but significant amounts of pharmaceutical sex steroids from exposure at home may be detected during medical evaluation for precocious puberty, but mild effects and the other potential exposures outlined above would not.

effect of stress and social factors on pubertal timing.
some of the least understood environmental influences on timing of puberty are social and psychological. in comparison with the effects of genetics, nutrition, and general health, social influences are small, shifting timing by a few months rather than years. mechanisms of these social effects are unknown, though a variety of physiological processes, including pheromones, have been suggested based on animal research.

the most important part of a child's psychosocial environment is the family, and most of the social influence research has investigated features of family structure and function in relation to earlier or later female puberty. most of the studies have reported that menarche may occur a few months earlier in girls in high-stress households, whose fathers are absent during their early childhood, who have a stepfather in the home, who are subjected to prolonged sexual abuse in childhood, or who are adopted from a developing country at a young age. conversely, menarche may be slightly later when a girl grows up in a large family with a biological father present.

more extreme degrees of environmental stress, such as wartime refugee status with threat to physical survival, have been found to be associated with delay of maturation, an effect that may be compounded by dietary inadequacy.

most of these reported social effects are small and our understanding is incomplete. most of these "effects" are statistical associations revealed by epidemiologic surveys. statistical associations are not necessarily causal, and a variety of covariables and alternative explanations can be imagined. effects of such small size can never be confirmed or refuted for any individual child. furthermore, interpretations of the data are politically controversial because of the ease with which this type of research can be used for political advocacy. accusations of bias based on political agenda sometimes accompany scientific criticism.

another limitation of the social research is that nearly all of it has concerned girls, partly because female puberty requires greater physiologic resources and partly because it involves a unique event (menarche) that makes survey research into female puberty much simpler than male. more detail is provided in the menarche article.

average timing for american children.
some of the most complete reference data are available for american children and are included here. average age for first signs of breast development in girls is about 10.5 years. average age for first signs of testicular enlargement in boys is 11.5 years. see tables below for approximate average ages and ranges for other milestones of physical development of north american children. 

duration of puberty (time from onset to completion) varies less between children than does the age of onset. duration of puberty in girls from onset of breast development to cessation of growth is roughly 5 years. duration of puberty in boys from first testicular enlargement to cessation of growth is about 6 years. 

table 1 provides 3rd, 50th, and 97th percentiles for attainment of selected stages by american girls, based on nchs data collected in the 1970s and reported in 1985 (tanner et al., 1985). in these tables, b, ph, and g refer to the tanner stages of physical puberty: b is breast, ph is pubic hair, and g is genitalia (penis and testes). b1, ph1, and g1 are the prepubertal stages of each of these, while b2, ph2, and g2 are the earliest signs of puberty. b5, ph5, and g5 are adult stages at the end of puberty. the tanner stage article contains links to fuller explanations of the specific stages. all three tables below express ages as years and months (y and m).



however, a later survey performed in the mid-1990s by a group of american primary pediatric practices with slightly different methods reported both a mildly earlier average onset, greater range, and more importantly, a significant difference between white and african-american girls in the early stages (table 2) (herman-giddens et al.).





----





variations of tempo and progression.

tempo is the speed at which the process of pubertal changes progresses from beginning to end. the duration of puberty generally varies less than timing of onset, and approximates 4 years for girls and 6 for boys (from first physical changes to attainment of adult height). nevertheless, some healthy children can proceed through puberty at a faster or slower tempo than most.

an interruption of progression of puberty is usually, but not always, due to abnormal causes such as malnutrition or anorexia nervosa. perhaps the most common apparently healthy variation is apparent interruption for a couple of years just after attainment of an early sign of initiation. for instance, some girls may seem to develop stage 2 breast buds at 6 or 7 years of age with no other signs of puberty, and nothing may happen for 2 or 3 years. physicians refer to this as "unsustained puberty."

variations of sequence.

the sequence of events of pubertal development can occasionally vary. for example, in about 15% of boys and girls, pubarche (the first pubic hairs) can precede, respectively, gonadarche and thelarche by a few months. rarely, menarche can occur before other signs of puberty in a few girls. these variations deserve medical evaluation because they can occasionally signal a disease.

conclusion of puberty.
in a general sense, the conclusion of puberty is reproductive maturity. criteria for defining the conclusion may differ for different purposes: attainment of the ability to reproduce, achievement of maximal adult height, maximal gonadal size, or adult sex hormone levels. maximal adult height is achieved at an average age of 14.5 years for american girls and 17.5 years for american boys. potential fertility (sometimes termed nubility) usually precedes completion of growth by 1-2 years in girls and 3-4 years in boys. stage 5 in the tables above typically represents maximal gonadal growth and attainment of adult hormone levels.

puberty as a neurohormonal process.

the endocrine reproductive system consists of the hypothalamus, the pituitary, the gonads, and the adrenal glands, with input and regulation from many other body systems. true puberty is often termed "central puberty" because it begins as a process of the central nervous system. a simple description of hormonal puberty is as follows:

the brain's hypothalamus begins to release pulses of gnrh. ;
cells in the anterior pituitary respond by secreting lh and fsh into the circulation.
the ovaries or testes respond to the rising amounts of lh and fsh by growing and beginning to produce estradiol and testosterone.
rising levels of estradiol and testosterone produce the body changes of female and male puberty.

the onset of this neurohormonal process may precede the first visible body changes by 1-2 years.

components of the endocrine reproductive system.

the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus is the driver of the reproductive system. it has neurons which generate and release pulses of gnrh into the portal venous system of the pituitary gland. the arcuate nucleus is affected and controlled by neuronal input from other areas of the brain and hormonal input from the gonads, adipose tissue and a variety of other systems. 

the pituitary gland responds to the pulsed gnrh signals by releasing lh and fsh into the blood of the general circulation, also in a pulsatile pattern.

the gonads (testes and ovaries) respond to rising levels of lh and fsh by producing the steroid sex hormones, testosterone and estradiol.

the adrenal glands are a second source for steroid hormones.  adrenal maturation, termed adrenarche, typically precedes gonadarche in mid-childhood.

major hormones of puberty.
gnrh (gonadotropin-releasing hormone) is a peptide hormone released from the hypothalamus which stimulates gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary.
lh (luteinizing hormone) is a larger protein hormone secreted into the general circulation by gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary gland. the main target cells of lh are the leydig cells of testes and the theca cells of the ovaries. lh secretion changes more dramatically with the initiation of puberty than fsh, as lh levels increase about 25-fold with the onset of puberty, compared with the 2.5-fold increase of fsh.
fsh (follicle stimulating hormone) is another protein hormone secreted into the general circulation by the gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary. the main target cells of fsh are the ovarian follicles and the sertoli cells and spermatogenic tissue of the testes.
testosterone is a steroid hormone produced primarily by the leydig cells of the testes, and in lesser amounts by the theca cells of the ovaries and the adrenal cortex. testosterone is the primary  mammalian androgen and the "original" anabolic steroid. it acts on androgen receptors in responsive tissue throughout the body. ;
estradiol is a steroid hormone produced by aromatization of testosterone. estradiol is the principal human estrogen and acts on estrogen receptors throughout the body. the largest amounts of estradiol are produced by the granulosa cells of the ovaries, but lesser amounts are derived from testicular and adrenal testoterone.
adrenal androgens are steroids produced by the zona reticulosa of the adrenal cortex in both sexes. the major adrenal androgens are dehydroepiandrosterone, androstenedione (which are precursors of testosterone), and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate which is present in large amounts in the blood. adrenal androgens contribute to the androgenic events of early puberty in girls. ;
igf1 (insulin-like growth factor 1) rises substantially during puberty in response to rising levels of growth hormone and may be the principal mediator of the pubertal growth spurt.
leptin is a protein hormone produced by adipose tissue. its primary target organ is the hypothalamus. the leptin level seems to provide the brain a rough indicator of adipose mass for purposes of regulation of appetite and energy metabolism. it also plays a permissive role in female puberty, which usually will not proceed until an adequate body mass has been achieved.

the process of puberty from an endocrine perspective.

the endocrine reproductive system becomes functional by the end of the first trimester of fetal life. the testes and ovaries become briefly inactive around the time of birth but resume hormonal activity until several months after birth, when incompletely understood mechanisms in the brain begin to suppress the activity of the arcuate nucleus. this has been referred to as maturation of the prepubertal "gonadostat," which becomes sensitive to negative feedback by sex steroids. 

gonadotropin and sex steroid levels fall to low levels (nearly undetectable by current clinical assays) for approximately another 8 to 10 years of childhood. evidence is accumulating that the reproductive system is not totally inactive during the childhood years. subtle increases in gonadotropin pulses occur, and ovarian follicles surrounding germ cells (future eggs) double in number.

normal puberty is initiated in the hypothalamus, with de-inhibition of the pulse generator in the arcuate nucleus. this inhibition of the arcuate nucleus is an ongoing active suppression by other areas of the brain. the signal and mechanism releasing the arcuate nucleus from inhibition have been the subject of investigation for decades and remain incompletely understood. leptin levels rise throughout childhood and play a part in allowing the arcuate nucleus to resume operation. if the childhood inhibition of the arcuate nucleus is interrupted prematurely by injury to the brain, it may resume pulsatile gonadotropin release and puberty will begin at an early age. 

neurons of the arcuate nucleus secrete gonadotropin releasing hormone (gnrh) into the blood of the pituitary portal system. these gnrh signals from the hypothalamus induce pulsed secretion of lh (and to a lesser degree, fsh) at roughly 1-2 hour intervals. in the years preceding physical puberty, these gonadotropin pulses occur primarily at night and are of very low amplitude, but as puberty approaches they can be detected during the day. by the end of puberty, there is little day-night difference in the amplitude and frequency of gonadotropin pulses.

an array of "autoamplification processes" increase the production of all of the pubertal hormones of the hypothalamus, pituitary, and gonads.

regulation of adrenarche and its relationship to maturation of the hypothalamic-gonadal axis is not fully understood, and some evidence suggests it is a parallel but largely independent process coincident with or even preceding  central puberty. rising levels of adrenal androgens (termed adrenarche) can usually be detected between 6 and 11 years of age, even before the increasing gonadotropin pulses of hypothalamic puberty. adrenal androgens contribute to the development of pubic hair (pubarche), adult body odor, and other androgenic changes in both sexes. the primary clinical significance of the distinction between adrenarche and gonadarche is that pubic hair and body odor changes by themselves do not prove that central puberty is underway for an individual child.

hormonal changes of puberty in girls.

as the amplitude of lh pulses increases, the theca cells of the ovaries begin to produce testosterone and smaller amounts of progesterone. much of the testosterone moves into nearby cells called granulosa cells. smaller increases of fsh induce an increase in the aromatase activity of these granulosa cells, which converts most of the testosterone to estradiol for secretion into the circulation.

rising levels of estradiol produce the characteristic estrogenic body changes of female puberty: growth spurt, acceleration of bone maturation and closure, breast growth, increased fat composition, growth of the uterus, increased thickness of the endometrium and the vaginal mucosa, and widening of the lower pelvis.

as the estradiol levels gradually rise and the other autoamplification processes occur, a point of maturation is reached when the feedback sensitivity of the hypothalamic "gonadostat" becomes positive. this attainment of positive feedback is the hallmark of female sexual maturity, as it allows the midcycle lh surge necessary for ovulation.

levels of adrenal androgens and testosterone also increase during puberty, producing the typical androgenic changes of female puberty: pubic hair, other androgenic hair as outlined above, body odor, acne.

growth hormone levels rise steadily throughout puberty. igf1 levels rise and then decline as puberty ends. growth finishes and adult height is attained as the estradiol levels complete closure of the epiphyses.

hormonal changes of puberty in boys.

early stages of male hypothalamic maturation seem to be very similar to the early stages of female puberty, though occurring about 1-2 years later. 

lh stimulates the leydig cells of the testes to make testosterone and blood levels begin to rise. for much of puberty, nighttime levels of testosterone are higher than daytime. regularity of frequency and amplitude of gonadotropin pulses seems to be less necessary for progression of male than female puberty.

as the testosterone levels slowly rise, most of the effects are mediated through the androgen receptors by way of conversion to dihydrotestosterone in the target tissues (especially of the skin).

however, a significant portion of testosterone in adolescent boys is converted to estradiol. estradiol mediates the growth spurt, bone maturation, and epiphyseal closure in boys just as in girls. estradiol also induces at least modest development of breast tissue (gynecomastia) in a large proportion of boys.

historical shift in the onset of puberty.

the age at which puberty occurs has dropped significantly since the 1840s.  researchers refer to this drop as the 'secular trend'. from 1840 through 1950, in each decade there was a drop of four months in the average age of menarche among western european female samples.  in norway, girls born in 1840 had their first menarche at average 17 years. in france in 1840 the average was 15.3 years. in england the 1840 average was 16.5 years for girls. in japan the decline happened later and was then more rapid: from 1945 to 1975 in japan there was a drop of 11 months per decade.

the most likely cause, as is generally accepted, is the increase of weight gain in the world's youth. some scientists and researches hypothesize it may be caused by hormones and other additions in processed milk and meats.

increasing frequency of early onset of puberty.
the onset of puberty is occuring two years earlier than usual, reaching stage two level, with greater frequency.     this is reducing the childhood period, and is adding a greater risk of childhood pregnancy.  contributing factors include environmental estrogens, a sedentary lifestyle and obesity.  see precocious puberty for further discussion of the medical dynamics of this issue.

puberty as a problem.
 see precocious puberty;
 see delayed puberty;
 see menarche, gonadarche, pubarche, thelarche, adrenarche.

see also.
child sexuality;
adolescence;

references.

 herman-giddens me, slora ej, wasserman rc, et al. secondary sexual characteristics and menses in young girls seen in office practice: a study from the pediatric research in office settings network. pediatrics, 1997; 99:501-12. newer data suggesting we should be using lower age thresholds for evaluation.;
 plant tm, lee pa, eds. the neurobiology of puberty. bristol: society for endocrinology, 1995. proceedings of the latest (4th) international conference on the control of the onset of puberty, containing summaries of current theories of physiological control, as well as gnrh analog treatment.;
 tanner jm, davies ps. clinical longitudinal standards for height and weight velocity for north american children. j pediatr 1985; 107:317-29. highly useful growth charts with integrated standards for stages of puberty.;
 ducros, a. and pasquet, p. evolution de l'\e2ge d'apparition des premi\e8res r\e8gles (m\e9narche) en france. biom\e9trie humaine (1978), 13, 35 43.

external links.
 guide to growing up wikibook - a wikibook covering ways to cope with many of the challenges that teens face.
teen puberty;
nih guide to puberty and adolescence;
growing up sexually: a world atlas;
love and sex section - youthinformation.com;
family practice notebook: sexual development;
 research shows how evolution explains age of puberty, sciencedaily,  december 1, 2005.
 mark hanson,  p. gluckman. evolution, development and timing of puberty, trends in endocrinology & metabolism, january 2006.
neurobiological mechanisms of the onset of puberty in primates, endocrine reviews, 2001 feb;22(1):111-51.































</doc>
<doc id="47088" title="nice" nonfiltered="305" processed="301" dbindex="306">




nice (; ni\e7ard occitan: ni\e7a norm or nissa, italian: nizza, greek:      ) is a city in southern france located on the mediterranean coast, between marseille and genoa, with 933,080 inhabitants in the metropolitan area at the 1999 census. the city is a major tourist centre and a leading resort on the french riviera (c\f4te d'azur). it is the historical capital city of the county of nice.

administration.
located in the provence-alpes-c\f4te d'azur r\e9gion, nice is a commune and the pr\e9fecture (administrative capital) of the alpes-maritimes d\e9partement.

 history .   


for the ecclesiastical history, see bishopric of nice;
there were settlements in the nice area approximately 400,000 years ago: the site of terra amata shows one of the earliest uses of fire and construction of houses.

nice (nicaea) was founded probably around 350 bc by the greeks of 
massilia (marseille) and received the name of        ("nikaia") in honor of a victory over the neighbouring ligurians (nike being the greek goddess of victory). it soon became one of the busiest trading stations on the ligurian coast; but as a city it had an important rival in the roman town of cemenelum, which continued to exist as a separate city till the time of the lombard invasions, and has left its ruins at cimiez, which is now a quarter of nice.

in the 7th century nice joined the genoese league formed by the towns of liguria. in 729 it repulsed the saracens; but in 859 and 880 they pillaged and burned it, and for the most of the 10th century remained masters of the surrounding country.

during the middle ages nice had its share in the wars and disasters of italy. as an ally of pisa it was the enemy of genoa, and both the king of france and the emperor endeavoured to subjugate it; but in spite of all it maintained its municipal liberties. in the course of the 13th and 14th centuries it fell more than once into the hands of the counts of provence; and at length in 1388 the commune placed itself under the protection of the counts of savoy.

the maritime strength of nice now rapidly increased until it was able to cope with the barbary pirates; the fortifications were largely extended and the roads to the city improved. during the struggle between francis i and charles v great damage was caused by the passage of the armies invading provence; pestilence and famine raged in the city for several years. it was in nice that the two monarchs in 1538 concluded, through the mediation of pope paul iii, a truce of ten years.


in 1543 nice was attacked by the united forces of francis i and barbarossa hayreddin pasha; and, though the inhabitants repulsed the assault which succeeded the terrible bombardment, they were ultimately compelled to surrender, and barbarossa was allowed to pillage the city and to carry off 2,500 captives. pestilence appeared again in 1550 and 1580.

in 1600 nice was taken by the duke of guise. by opening the ports of the countship to all nations, and proclaiming full freedom of trade, charles emmanuel in 1626 gave a great stimulus to the commerce of the city, whose noble families took part in its mercantile enterprises. captured by catinat in 1691, nice was restored to savoy in 1696; but it was again besieged by the french in 1705, and in the following year its citadel and ramparts were demolished.



the treaty of utrecht in 1713 once more gave the city back to savoy; and in the peaceful years which followed the "new town" was built. from 1744 till the peace of aix-la-chapelle (1748) the french and spaniards were again in possession. in 1775 the king of sardinia destroyed all that remained of the ancient liberties of the commune. conquered in 1792 by the armies of the french republic, the county of nice continued to be part of france until 1814; but after that date it reverted to sardinia.

by a treaty concluded in 1860 between the sardinian king and napoleon iii, it was again transferred to france as a territorial reward for french assistance in the second italian war of independence against austria, which saw lombardy unified with piedmont-sardinia. the cession was ratified by over 25,000 electors out of a total of 30,700 although the plebiscite was most likely manipulated by the french. savoy was also transferred to the french crown by similar means.

the dawn of the 20th century was the arrival of a modern mode of transport. in 1900, the tramway de nice electrified its horse drawn tramway and spread its network to menton and cagnes-sur-mer, equipping the city of a modern mode of transport.



in the second half of the 20th century, nice bore the influence of mayor jean m\e9decin (mayor from 1947 to 1965) and his son jacques (mayor from 1966 to 1990). on october 16 1979 23 people died when the coast of nice was hit by a tsunami. as accusations of political corruption against jacques m\e9decin grew, he fled france in 1990 and was arrested in uruguay in 1993, leading to his extradition in 1994. he was then convicted of several counts of corruption and associated crimes and sentenced to prison.

jacques peyrat, the mayor of nice since 1995, is a member of the ump party and former member of the front national.

in 2003, local head prosecutor \c9ric de montgolfier alleged that some judicial cases involving local personalities had been suspiciously derailed by the local judiciary, which he suspected of having unhealthy contacts, through masonic lodges, with the very people that they are supposed to prosecute or judge. a controversial official report stated that de montgolfier had made unwarranted accusations.

 climate .

nice enjoys mild and sunny weather throughout the year. its mediterranean climate allows rather warm summers and mild winters, with temperatures rarely reaching the freezing point.
snowfall, although extremely rare, sometimes occurs.

the following table provides averages of the temperatures which have been recorded at the airport, which is situated at a way cooler location than the rest of the town, which is easily 4\b0c warmer.



 culture .
nice has a distinct culture due to its unique history. the local language ni\e7ard (nissart) is an occitan dialect, still spoken by a minority. strong italian and (less) corsican influences make it less unintelligible than other non-extinct proven\e7al dialects that exist around.

local food culture, which includes pissaladi\e8re, a pie with onions and anchovies paste; socca, a type of pancake made from chickpea flour; bouillabaisse and various fish soups; "stockfish" 
(traditionally pronounced as "stoquefiche" (french spelling) with special emphasis on the first "e"), farcis ni\e7ois, vegetables stuffed with breadcrumbs; and salade ni\e7oise, a tomato salad with green peppers of the "corne" breed, baked eggs, tuna or anchovies and olives.

in the past nice welcomed many immigrants from italy (who continue to make a large proportion of the population), as well as spanish and portuguese immigrants. however, in the past few decades immigration has been opened to include immigrants from all over the world particularly immigrants from other parts of the world, mainly former northern and western african colonies, as well as southeastern asia. traditions are still alive, especially in the folk music and the dances. the most famous is the farandole.

places of interest.
 promenade des anglais: the street running along the edge of the water, with strong nightlife and nice views;
 ch\e2teau;
 monument aux morts;
 the port;
 march\e9 aux fleurs (flower market): runs every day of the week selling all the best produce of the area;
 old nice;
 grand h\f4tel imp\e9rial;

religious buildings.
 
 sainte-r\e9parate cathedral, 17th century;
 saint-jacques church, 17th century;
 the saint nicolas orthodox cathedral;
 sainte jeanne d'arc church, 20th century;

museums.
 mus\e9e des beaux-arts jules ch\e9ret;
 mus\e9e mass\e9na;
 museum of natural history;
 naval museum;
 galerie des ponchettes;
 mus\e9e chagall (cimiez);
 mus\e9e matisse (arenas of cimiez where one can also see roman ruins);
 mus\e9e terra-amata;

sports and entertainment facilities.
 stade du ray;
 stade charles-ehrmann;
 palais nikaia;

education.
nice is home of the university of nice sophia antipolis and edhec business school.

transport.
the city is served by c\f4te d'azur international airport and has a railway station. the smaller gare du sud is not used any longer. the chemins de fer de provence is a small rail company providing a daily train service between nice and digne-les-bains. the ferry companies sncm and corsica ferries operate from the nice harbour and sail to several towns on corsica. 

public transport within the city and to neighbouring areas is provided by the ligne d'azur bus company.  a tramway, the tramway de nice, is currently under construction and is expected to begin operation in 2007.



miscellaneous.
births.
nice was the birthplace of:
 catherine s\e9gurane, heroine of the siege of nice in 1543;
 andre massena (1758 1817), duke of rivoli, prince of essling, soldier in the armies of napoleon and a marshal of france;
 giuseppe garibaldi (1807 1885), nationalist revolutionary and italy's most famous soldier of the risorgimento;
 robert caesar childers (1838 1876), british orientalist scholar;
 melchior de vogue (1848 1910), author;
 albert calmette (1863 1933), physician, bacteriologist and immunologist;
 marcel journet (1867 1933), tenor;
 ren\e9 dreyfus (1905 1993), grand prix driver;
 jean behra (1921 1959), formula one driver;
 simone veil (1927-), lawyer and politician;
 yves klein (1928 1962), artist;
 max gallo (1932-), author and politician;
 christian wolff (1934-), american composer of experimental classical music;
 le clezio (1940-), author;
 didier van cauweleart (1960-), author, winner of the goncourt in 1994;
 jenifer bartoli (1982-), pop singer;

town twinning.
nice's town twins are:

 active twinnings:
  cuneo, italy;
  edinburgh, scotland;
  gda sk, poland;
  hangzhou, china;
  laval, canada;
  louisiana (state), united states;
  nuremberg, germany;
  saint petersburg, russia;
  szeged, hungary;
  thessaloniki, greece;
  yalta, ukraine;

 other twinnings:
  alacant, spain;
  cartagena, colombia;
  antananarivo, madagascar;
  cape town, south africa;
  houston, united states;
  kamakura, japan;
  libreville, gabon;
  manila, philippines;
  miami, united states;
  netanya, israel;
  noum\e9a, france;
  phuket, thailand;
  rio de janeiro, brazil;
  saint denis, france;
  santa cruz de tenerife, spain;
  sorrento, italy;

 pact of friendship:
  xiamen, china;

see also.

 county of nice;
 albert spaggiari;
 bishopric of nice;
 nice carnival;
 catherine s\e9gurane;
 cimeti\e8re du ch\e2teau ;
 cimiez;
 european institute of high international studies;
 hotel negresco;
 nice observatory;
 ogc nice;
 rugby nice c\f4te d'azur universit\e9-racing;
 paris-nice;
 sophia antipolis;
 treaty of nice (2003);

sources and references.



;
;

external links.

 nice official site ;
 dances and traditional musics from nice  ;
 ;















































</doc>
<doc id="2617867" title="fallin'" nonfiltered="306" processed="302" dbindex="307">


"fallin'" is the first single from r&b/soul musician alicia keys's debut album, songs in a minor. released to radio and music video outlets in april 2001, the song is her debut single and is also generally considered her signature song. "fallin'" became keys' first number one single in the united states, and her first top five hit in the united kingdom and australia.

song information.
the songwriting and production credits for "fallin'" are credited solely to alicia keys. however, the composition and arrangement of the song's instrumentation is very similar (the only difference being a change in key) of "it's a man's man's man's world", a 1966 single by james brown.

the song's lyrics find keys lamenting on a relationship that fills her with confused and mixed feelings. following the song's a cappella intro, she proceeds to explain how her relationship with her man varies between happy times and painful conflict. to sum up her feelings, keys notes, "i keep on fallin', in and out of love with you, i never loved someone the way that i'm loving you..". accompanying the lyrics is keys' production, including her piano performance, which takes the main chords from "it's a man's man's man's world" and weaves them into a new song. the record also features a violin performance of the pizzicato and legato strings from brown's song by miri ben-ari. keys' collaborator, and later, kerry "krucial" brothers, provides the song's drum programming.

although the song is alicia keys's signature song, it ironically almost did not become her single. before she joined j records, keys had signed a recording contract with sony's columbia records. sony felt that keys should sing more mainstream-accessible material written by others, while she insisted upon recording her own compositions. as a result, keys' recording career remained in limbo for two years. bored and with free time on her hands because of sony's lack of interest in her, keys decided to put her time to good use and began to write a song. instantly, arpeggios hit her, and she became inspired with the chords that would define "fallin'" (the ones that were close to "it's a man's man's man's world"). she quickly composed lyrics basing the tune on the emotions she faced during one of her first serious romantic relationships.

as keys was still in aristic limbo, the song was originally not meant for her; sony intended to have kim scott, a child prodigy signed to their label, record "fallin'". keys became uneasy over the matter, as she wanted to record the song herself, but could not because sony was not focusing on her career. at first keys had surrendered the piece to scott willingly, but later changed her mind, and scott did not record it. clive davis, a former columbia records executive then at arista records, heard about keys and was impressed with her artistry. after davis started a label of his own, j records, he bought out keys' sony contract and signed her to his label.

once at j records, keys began work on her debut album, songs in a minor. unlike sony, j records did not mind keys recording her own compsitions, and encouraged her to do so. when it was time for a first single to be chosen, "girlfriend", a song keys had worked on with jermaine dupri while at columbia, was considered, but keys and other executives agreed that "fallin'" would be the best choice.

release.
"fallin'" was released in april 2001 as keys' first single, amidst considerable promotion and praise from davis and j records. the song quickly became a stable of both urban and pop radio, eventually rising to number-one on both the billboard hot 100 chart and the billboard hot r&b/hip-hop singles & tracks chart. "fallin'" reached number one in the u.s. charts on august 18, 2001, and remained there for six weeks. it also reached number three in the united kingdom and number two in australia. a remix of the song, featuring busta rhymes and rampage from the flipmode squad (also at that time signed to j records), included on the british edition of her album, reimagines the song as a hip-hop-flavored dance song. since its release, "fallin'" has become a popular standard for contestants on the reality television series american idol.

awards.
as one of the most critically acclaimed singles of 2001, "fallin'" was nominated for several awards. "fallin'" connected well with naras as the song was nominated in 2002 for four grammy awards: song of the year, record of the year, best female r&b vocal performance, and best r&b song. it ended up winning song of the year, best female r&b vocal performance, and best r&b song (record of the year was awarded to u2's "walk on").

at the 2001 billboard music awards, "fallin'" was nominated for the hot 100 single of the year; however, it lost the award to lifehouse's "hanging by a moment". the song was also nominated for outstanding song and outstanding music video at the 2002 naacp image awards. it did not win in either category.

music video.
the music video of "fallin'", directed by chris robinson was a staple of bet and mtv2 during the spring and summer of 2001. unlike most other contemporary r&b videos, "fallin's" video was a low-key clip with no dancing. the video's plot has keys traveling to a prison to visit her incarcerated boyfriend. the plot is continued in the video for keys' next single, "a woman's worth", which explores what happens when keys' boyfriend is released and, with her help, adjusts back to regular life.  keys said in an interview that she was supposed to be the one incarcerated, and her boyfriend was visiting her. 

credits.
written by alicia keys;
produced by alicia keys;
lead vocals by alicia keys;
background vocals by alicia keys, cindy mizelle, tammy saunders, and andricka hall;
violin by miri ben-ari;
drum programming by kerry "krucial" brothers;
all other instruments performed by alicia keys;








 see also .
 hot 100 number-one hits of 2001 (usa);













</doc>
<doc id="7290850" title="rotherhithe (uk parliament constituency)" nonfiltered="307" processed="303" dbindex="308">

rotherhithe was a parliamentary constituency centred on the rotherhithe district of south london.  it returned one member of parliament to the house of commons of the parliament of the united kingdom, elected by the first past the post system.

the constituency was created for the 1885 general election, and abolished for the 1950 general election.

 boundaries .


 members of parliament .


 election results .


 references .
;








</doc>
<doc id="2665276" title="chemotype" nonfiltered="308" processed="304" dbindex="309">
a chemotype (sometimes chemovar) is a chemically distinct entity in a plant or microorganism, with differences in the composition of the secondary metabolites. minor genetic and epigenetic changes with little or no effect on morphology may produce large changes in the chemical phenotype. 

a good example of a plant with many chemotypes is thymus vulgaris. while largely indistinguishable in appearance, specimens of t. vulgaris may be assigned to one of six different chemotypes, depending on whether the primary component of the essential oil is thymol, carvacrol, linalool, geraniol, thujanol-4 or terpineol. such chemotypes may be indicated as thymus vulgaris ct. thymol (red thyme), or thymus vulgaris ct. geraniol (sweet thyme), etc. such an indication has no taxonomic standing, also see ecotype.








</doc>
<doc id="7701307" title="royalty!" nonfiltered="309" processed="305" dbindex="310">
"royalty!" is a song from the 1974 musical film, huckleberry finn based on the book by mark twain.  it was sung by harvey korman as "the king" (of france, no less) and david wayne as the duke (of bilgwater).  the song is one of the comedic highlights of the film.  in the course of the song, the king and the duke attempt to convince jim and huckleberry that they are down-on-their-luck french royals.  it's a fairly transparent scam, but jim and huckleberry nevertheless play along with con artists.  the song was written by the sherman brothers.

literary sources.
 sherman, robert b. walt's time: from before to beyond. pages: 178-181, santa clarita: camphor tree publishers, 1998.




</doc>
<doc id="8290217" title="yakov rekhter" nonfiltered="310" processed="306" dbindex="311">



dr. yakov rekhter joined juniper networks in dec 2000, where he is a juniper fellow. prior to joining juniper, yakov worked at cisco systems, where he was a cisco fellow. prior to joining cisco in 1995, he worked at ibm t.j. watson research center.

yakov rekhter was one of the leading architects and a major software developer of the nsfnet backbone phase ii. he co-designed the border gateway protocol (bgp). he was also one of the lead designers of tag switching, bgp/mpls based vpns, and mpls traffic engineering. among his most recent activities is the work on generalized multi-protocol label switching (gmpls). his other contributions to contemporary internet technology include: classless inter-domain routing (cidr) and ip address allocation for private internets.

he is the author or co-author of over 40 ietf rfcs, (see ietf) and numerous papers and articles on tcp/ip and the internet. his recent books include: "mpls: technology and applications" (morgan kauffman, 2000) and "switching in ip networks: ip switching, tag switching and related technologies" (morgan kauffman, 1998).


</doc>
<doc id="3088706" title="project shamrock" nonfiltered="311" processed="307" dbindex="312">
project shamrock, considered to be the sister project for project minaret, was an espionage exercise that involved the accumulation of all telegraphic data entering into or exiting from the united states. the armed forces security agency (afsa) and its successor nsa were given direct access to daily microfilm copies of all incoming, outgoing, and transiting telegraphs via the western union and its associates rca and itt. operation shamrock lasted well into the 1960s when computerized operations (harvest) made it possible to search for keywords rather than read through all communications. 

project shamrock became so successful that in 1966 the nsa and cia set up a front company in lower manhattan (where the offices of the telegraph companies were located) under the codename lpmedley. at the height of project shamrock, 150,000 messages a month were printed and analyzed by nsa agents. in may 1975 however, congressional critics began to investigate and expose the program. as a result, nsa director lew allen terminated it. the testimony of both the representatives from the cable companies and of director allen at the hearings prompted senate intelligence committee chairman sen. frank church to conclude that project shamrock was  probably the largest government interception program affecting americans ever undertaken."

one result of these investigations was the creation of the foreign intelligence surveillance act (fisa) which limited the powers of the nsa and put in place a process of warrants and judicial review.

other uses.
"operation shamrock" was also the name of a plan to bring german children to ireland from post world war ii germany

external links.
 echelon: america's secret global surveillance network;
 the nsa's global spying network | by by patrick s. poole;
 the national security agency: the secret unveiled;
 development of surveillance technology & risk of abuse of economic information | pdf;
 schneier on security: project shamrock;
 house report on project minaret and project shamrock;










</doc>
<doc id="5084439" title="rengoku 2" nonfiltered="312" processed="308" dbindex="313">


rengoku 2 is a fantasy action adventure game developed by hudson soft and published by konami for sony's playstation portable. it was recently revealed on may 9, 2006 at the e3 convention .

story
in the game, the player controls a.d.a.m., a battle android, as he fights his way up a tower with eight floors, the first seven named after the seven deadly sins. the main story it's the same of the first.

while the character shares the name with the previous title, two characters are different characters. the game also features over 300 weapons; downloadable maps, weapons, and items; as well as wireless multiplayer for up to four people.

the us version is titled "the stairway to h.e.a.v.e.n", which is named after the famous led zeppelin song.

the game got a 2 out of 5 on x-play, saying that the only improvement was that not all of the rooms were the same as compared to the previous game, but still lacked anything to gain x-play's praise since the problems from the first rengoku still persisted.


gallery.




external link.
rengoku 2 at gamespot;






</doc>
<doc id="3959389" title="colorado and wyoming railway" nonfiltered="313" processed="309" dbindex="314">
originally founded in 1899, the colorado and wyoming railway is a subsidiary of the oregon steel mills company.  it hauls coal, ore and steel products on about five miles of track to connect with the union pacific railroad and the bnsf railroad.






</doc>
<doc id="1622071" title="peter oundjian" nonfiltered="314" processed="310" dbindex="315">
peter oundjian (born 1955, toronto, ontario, canada) is a violinist and conductor, the youngest of five children from an armenian father and english mother.  he was educated in england, where he began studying the violin at age seven with manoug parikian. he then attended the royal college of music.  he went to new york to study at the  juilliard school with ivan galamian, itzhak perlman, and dorothy delay. 

in 1980, he won first prize at the international violin competition in vi\f1a del mar, chile.  oundjian went on to hold an illustrious career as the first violinist of the tokyo string quartet for 14 years.  focal dystonia related to repetitive stress injury forced oundjian to put aside his instrumental career, fall 2004.].  he then shifted his musical focus to being a conductor.

oundjian was the artistic director of the nieuw sinfonietta amsterdam (now the amsterdam sinfonietta) from 1998-2003. he is also the artistic advisor and principal guest conductor of the caramoor international music festival. he has been the principal guest conductor of the colorado symphony orchestra.  his guest-conducting appearances have been with the chicago, san francisco, detroit, st. louis and berlin symphonies, the philadelphia orchestra, saarbrucken radio orchestra, the city of birmingham symphony orchestra and the tonhalle orchester in zurich..

oundjian was appointed the music director of the toronto symphony orchestra (tso) in january 2003, and assumed the post in 2004.  the orchestra had financial problems before the time of oundjian's appointment, but he has contributed to an improvement in the orchestra's situation since the start of his tenure, 3 february 2007.].  oundjian has recently extended his contract with the tso to 2012, 8 february 2007.].

more recently, oundjian was named the principal guest conductor and artistic advisor of the detroit symphony orchestra.

oundjian also teaches at the yale school of music.  he, his wife nadine, and their children lara and peter make their home in connecticut.

references.




trivia.
 british comedian eric idle is his cousin.
 


</doc>
<doc id="5914515" title="lee aronsohn" nonfiltered="315" processed="311" dbindex="316">
lee aronsohn (born december 15, 1952) is a television writer and producer.

he has written for some very successful sitcoms, such as the love boat, who's the boss?, murphy brown, grace under fire and cybill.

in 2003, he co-created the sitcom two and a half men and wrote original music for the series. besides writing scripts, aronsohn was also executive producer for six episodes in 2006. that same year, he directed his first episode.

external links.
;
screenwriting expo;







</doc>
<doc id="6814605" title="nikolay kamenskiy" nonfiltered="316" processed="312" dbindex="317">






nikolay kamenskiy (born october 17, 1931). is a former soviet ski jumper who competed in the late 1950s and early 1960s. he won a silver medal in the individual large hill at the 1962 fis nordic world ski championships in zakopane.

kamenskiy also finished fourth in the individual large hill competition at the 1960 winter olympics in squaw valley. he also won the ski jump competition at the holmenollen ski festival in 1958, the four hills tournament in 1957, and two other victories in normal hill events in 1957.

external links.
fis profile (as nikolaj kamenski);
holmenkollen winners since 1892;











</doc>
<doc id="1238128" title="the legend of mir 3" nonfiltered="318" processed="313" dbindex="320">
the legend of mir 3 (korean:        3) is a sprite based isometric 3-d massively multiplayer online role-playing game, developed by wemade entertainment. it is a sequel to the massively multiplayer game the legend of mir 2.

the game remains largely unchanged from the previous version, with the exception of the graphics being upgraded from 8-bit to 16-bit. there is also improved player customization, far larger maps, and a revamped quest system.

note: recently the legend of mir3 client version 3.55, has been released. some major changes have been made. glowing armour, leveling cap not maxed, new maps, guild functions, items, towns.

like its predecessor the legend of mir 2, the legend of mir 3 is hugely popular in china and south korea. it has been certified by the guinness book of records for having 750,000 subscribers online simultaneously.

the current european host for the game is the italy-based game network, who obtained the license to run mir 3 in early 2006. the original hosts were bradford-based quality games online (qgo). the game was in open beta from february 2006 until june 2006.

the united states host for the game is the us based ientertainment. the us version of the game is in pay-to-play phase also, and the two companies are now working together to acquire implemented changes from wemade.

 characters .


 warrior .

the warrior is a straight forward basic class. warrior uses 'dc' charm(melee attack) to kill the enemy. they have high hp (hit points), high ac (defense from melee attacks) and have very little mp (mana points) and low mr (magic resistance). 


 wizard .

the wizard can be a bit tricky at first. they use magic attacks such as "frozen earth" or "ice blades". they use 'mc' charm (ranged magic). they have a wide variety of elements to choose from and use on their opponents or monsters. elemental weaknesses are key to wizards. they have aoe(area of effect) attacks as well as mass attacks. wizards have low hp (hit points), extremely high mp (mana points), high mr (magic resistance) but low ac (melee defense).


 taoist .

the taoist is a support class. similar to a priest, the taoist can heal and bless. healing is one very important aspect of the game. taoists throw talismans and poison. they focus on two key elements. holy and dark. they can summon pets such as the 'shinsoo' or 'jin skelly'. taoists can resurrect the dead, a very useful move. taoists are considerd the hardest and most complex class to level up and boss hunt with. taoists use 'sc' (soul charm), which is a balance between magic and melee attack. still ranged the taoist can use 'sc' to increase the amount of damage and skill use. taoists have balanced mp(mana points) + hp(hit points)as well as balance mr(magic resistance) + ac(melee defense).   



external links.
korean site  ;
european site;
us site;






</doc>
<doc id="8258396" title="the spirit of christmas 1998" nonfiltered="319" processed="314" dbindex="321">


the spirit of christmas 1998 is part of the spirit of christmas album series. it was released in australia on november, 1998.  some tracks on this album have been released before in previous spirit of christmas albums,

track listing.
carol of the drum - christine anu *;
last christmas - human nature;
silent night - vika and linda *;
hark the herald angels sing - judith durham *;
bethlehem morning - hugh jackman;
grown-up christmas list - lisa edwards and lindsay field *;
o christmas bush - tania kernaghan;
away in a manger - olivia newton-john *;
you'll never walk alone - john farnham *;
happy christmas (war is over) - jimmy barnes and family ;
this christmas - deni hines *;
merry christmas baby - stephen cummings *;
christmas (baby please come home) - diesel*;
here comes santa claus - the wiggles;
little ray of sunshine - glenn shorrock;

 denotes this track has been released on a previous spirit of christmas album;

see also.
 spirit of christmas;
 1998 in music;









</doc>
<doc id="7846906" title="nephilengys cruentata" nonfiltered="321" processed="315" dbindex="323">


nephilengys cruentata is a nephilid spider with a strikingly red sternum.

females reach a length of about 24 millimeters. the legs can be uniformly dark red or brown, or annulated. males are about 4mm long.

distribution.
n. cruentata is found in tropical and subtropical africa and several limited areas of south america (brazil, northern colombia and paraguay), where it has probably been introduced by humans in the late 19th century at the latest.

name.
the species name cruentata is derived from latin cruentus "bloody", probably referring to the female red sternum.

references.




</doc>
<doc id="4973763" title="darlene fairley" nonfiltered="322" processed="316" dbindex="324">
darlene cook fairley (b 1943) is a washington state senator representing the 32nd district.  she now chairs the financial institutions, housing, and consumer protection committee.  she is running for her 4th term as a state senator.  

fairley became lake forest park councilmember in january 1992 and was first elected to the state senate in 1994.

fairley married michael gilbert fairley in 1969.  fairley was disabled in a traffic accident involving a drunk driver in august 1977.

as of 2006, she has received the following awards:

champion for the environment (sierra club)
champion for children (children's alliance)
housing hero (low income housing alliance)
superstar 2006 (washington state skill centers)
a friend of housing (washington state housing finance commission)
arc award (king county parent coalition for the developmentally disabled)


external links.
sen. fairley;
darlene fairley's myspace page;





</doc>
<doc id="2921328" title="mazhar khan" nonfiltered="323" processed="317" dbindex="325">
this article is about the pakistani cricketeer mazhar khan. for the bollywood actor see mazhar khan (actor).


mazhar khan (born september 11, 1964 in rawalpindi) is an pakistan-born omani cricketer. he is a right-handed batsman and right-arm offbreak bowler. he has made several appearances as a batsman in the 2005 icc trophy.









</doc>
<doc id="6266135" title="1991 in nascar busch series" nonfiltered="324" processed="318" dbindex="326">
the 1991 nascar busch series season began february 16 and ended on october 27. bobby labonte of labonte motorsports won the championship.





 goody's 300 .

the goody's 300 was held february 16 at daytona international speedway. david green won the pole.

top ten results

dale earnhardt;
michael waltrip;
davey allison;
ken schrader;
harry gant;
tom peck;
morgan shepherd;
jimmy spencer;
randy macdonald;
kenny wallace;

 pontiac 200 .

the pontiac 200 was held february 23 at richmond international raceway. jeff burton won the pole.

top ten results

harry gant;
dale earnhardt;
kenny wallace;
dale jarrett;
michael waltrip;
morgan shepherd;
bobby labonte;
jimmy hensley;
jimmy spencer;
davey allison;

 goodwrench 200 .

the goodwrench 200 was held march 2 at north carolina speedway. dale earnhardt won the pole.

top ten results

dale jarrett;
kenny wallace;
dale earnhardt;
todd bodine;
harry gant;
bobby labonte;
ed berrier;
jeff burton;
robert pressley;
jimmy hensley;

 miller classic .

the miller classic was held march 10 at martinsville speedway. elton sawyer won the pole.

top ten results

jimmy hensley;
dale jarrett;
kenny wallace;
bobby labonte;
elton sawyer;
steve grissom;
chuck bown;
tommy houston;
ward burton;
cecil eunice;

 spring 200 .

the spring 200 was held march 24 at volusia county speedway. chuck bown won the pole.

top ten results

kenny wallace;
tommy houston;
butch miller;
jimmy hensley;
david green;
jeff green;
bobby labonte;
todd bodine;
steve grissom;
chuck bown;

 mountain dew 400 .

the mountain dew 400 was held march 31 at hickory motor speedway. jimmy hensley won the pole.

top ten results

butch miller;
jimmy hensley;
joe nemechek;
ken schrader;
ed ferree;
robert pressly;
bobby labonte;
todd bodine;
bobby dotter;
tom peck;

 pontiac 200 .

the pontiac 200 was held april 6 at darlington raceway. jimmy hensley won the pole.

top ten results

dale jarrett;
bobby labonte;
dale earnhardt;
phil parsons;
todd bodine;
jimmy hensley;
joe nemechek;
jeff burton;
jeff gordon;
tom peck;

 budweiser 250 .

the budweiser 250 was held april 13 at bristol motor speedway. jeff burton won the pole.

top ten results

bobby labonte;
david green;
dale earnhardt;
jimmy spencer;
ed berrier;
clifford allison;
harry gant;
tracy leslie;
kenny wallace;
chuck bown;

 nestle 200 .

the nestle 200 was held april 27 at lanier raceway. robert pressley won the pole.

top ten results

david green;
jeff gordon;
mike wallace;
robert pressley;
chuck bown;
tommy houston;
jeff burton;
todd bodine;
dave madar iii;
ward burton;

 carquest 300 .

the carquest 300 was held may 4 at south boston speedway. steve grissom won the pole. during this race, gary niece suffered a heart attack and crashed into the wall in turn 3. he did not survive.

top ten results

jeff burton;
joe nemechek;
ed berrier;
bobby dotter;
steve grissom;
bobby labonte;
elton sawyer;
tom peck;
dave rezendes;
todd bodine;

 pontiac 200 .

the pontiac 200 was held may 11 at nazareth speedway. jimmy hensley won the pole.

top ten results

chuck bown;
steve grissom;
kenny wallace;
david green;
jeff gordon;
mike wallace;
bobby labonte;
tommy houston;
jimmy hensley;
robert pressley;

 champion 300 .

the champion 300 was held may 25 at charlotte motor speedway. jack sprague won the pole.

top ten results

dale earnhardt;
dick trickle;
harry gant;
jimmy hensley;
jack sprague;
darrell waltrip;
tommy houston;
bobby labonte;
ward burton;
terry labonte;

 budweiser 200 .

the budweiser 200 was held june 1 at dover international speedway. dave madar iii won the pole.

top ten results

todd bodine;
jeff gordon;
darrell waltrip;
ward burton;
bobby labonte;
davey allison;
jimmy hensley;
steve grissom;
tom peck;
joe nemechek;

 roses stores 300 .

the roses stores 300 was held june 8 at orange county speedway. jeff gordon won the pole.

top ten results

robert pressley;
jimmy hensley;
david green;
kenny wallace;
jeff burton;
bobby labonte;
tommy houston;
tom peck;
jeff gordon;
ed ferree;

 granger select 400 .

the granger select 400 was held june 15 at hickory motor speedway. chuck bown won the pole.

top ten results

jimmy hensley;
jeff gordon;
bobby labonte;
ed berrier;
steve grissom;
robert pressley;
tom peck;
tracy leslie;
bobby dotter;
joe nemechek;

 carolina pride/budweiser 200 .

the carolina pride/budweier 200 was held june 22 at myrtle beach speedway. chuck bown won the pole.

top ten results

chuck bown;
robert pressley;
steve grissom;
kenny wallace;
joe nemechek;
todd bodine;
tom peck;
ward burton;
david green;
ed berrier;

 fay's 150 .

the inaugural fay's 150 was held june 29 at watkins glen international raceway. terry labonte won the pole.

top ten results

terry labonte;
joe nemechek;
ernie irvan;
jeff burton;
todd bodine;
jeff gordon;
chuck bown;
curtis markham;
steve grissom;
david green;

 true value 250 .

the true value 250 was held july 7 at oxford plains speedway. billy clark won the pole.

top ten results

ricky craven;
tommy houston;
todd bodine;
tracy leslie;
bobby dotter;
jeff burton;
bobby labonte;
kenny wallace;
steve grissom;
joe nemechek;

 budweiser 300 .

the budweiser 300 was held july 14 at new hampshire international speedway. jimmy hensley won the pole.

top ten results

kenny wallace;
chuck bown;
steve grissom;
michael waltrip;
ernie irvan;
joe nemechek;
robert pressley;
david green;
dick mccabe;
stub fadden;

 coors light 300 .

the coors light 300 was held july 20 at south boston speedway. todd bodine won the pole.

top ten results

steve grissom;
kenny wallace;
tommy houston;
tom peck;
jack ingram;
todd bodine;
elton sawyer;
jay fogleman;
jimmy hensley;
butch miller;

 granger select 200 .

the granger select 200 was held july 27 at new river valley speedway. todd bodine won the pole.

top ten results

chuck bown;
kenny wallace;
robert pressley;
david green;
tommy houston;
steve grissom;
jimmy hensley;
joe nemechek;
tom peck;
butch miller;

 kroger 200 .

the kroger 200 was held august 3 at indianapolis raceway park. ward burton won the pole.

top ten results

bobby labonte;
tracy leslie;
dick trickle;
chuck bown;
tommy houston;
joe nemechek;
dale jarrett;
ed berrier;
jack ingram;
troy beebe;

failed to qualify: mike oliver (#28), john linville (#62)

 texas pete 300 .

the texas pete 300 was held august 10 at orange county speedway. kenny wallace won the pole.

top ten results

jimmy hensley;
robert pressley;
butch miller;
steve grissom;
chuck bown;
joe nemechek;
kenny wallace;
jay fogleman;
bobby labonte;
tracy leslie;

 jay johnson 250 .

the jay johnson 250 was held august 23 at bristol motor speedway. chuck bown won the pole.

top ten results

dale jarrett;
bobby labonte;
jeff gordon;
davey allison;
jimmy hensley;
kenny wallace;
robert pressley;
chuck bown;
jeff burton;
butch miller;

 gatorade 200 .

the gatorade 200 was held august 31 at darlington raceway. harry gant won the pole.

top ten results

dale earnhardt;
michael waltrip;
todd bodine;
dick trickle;
bobby labonte;
darrell waltrip;
harry gant;
tom peck;
dave rezendes;
ken schrader;

 autolite 200 .

the autolite 200 was held september 6 at richmond international raceway. bobby labonte won the pole.

top ten results

harry gant;
robert pressley;
dale jarrett;
michael waltrip;
morgan shepherd;
darrell waltrip;
dale earnhardt;
joe nemechek;
ward burton;
ernie irvan;

 splitfire 200 .

the splitfire 200 was held september 14 at richmond international raceway. butch miller won the pole.

top ten results

harry gant;
robert pressley;
ward burton;
dick trickle;
ken schrader;
joe nemechek;
tommy ellis;
jeff gordon;
tom peck;
tommy houston;

 all pro 300 .

the all pro 300 was held october 5 at charlotte motor speedway. ward burton won the pole.

top ten results

harry gant;
ken schrader;
jimmy hensley;
tommy ellis;
tom peck;
darrell waltrip;
kenny wallace;
todd bodine;
phil parsons;
bill elliott;

 ne chevy 250 .

the ne chevy 250 was held october 13 at new hampshire international speedway. ricky craven won the pole.

top ten results

ricky craven;
chuck bown;
harry gant;
bobby labonte;
robert pressley;
butch miller;
jeff burton;
jamie aube;
kelly moore;
dick mccabe;

 ac-delco 200 .

the ac-delco 200 was held october 19 at north carolina speedway. ernie irvan won the pole.

top ten results

ernie irvan;
dale jarrett;
kenny wallace;
joe nemechek;
harry gant;
dale earnhardt;
robert pressley;
bobby labonte;
bill elliott;
todd bodine;

 winston classic .

the winston classic was held october 27 at martinsville speedway. bobby labonte won the pole.

top ten results

harry gant;
chuck bown;
dale jarrett;
todd bodine;
bobby labonte;
ward burton;
jeff burton;
jeff gordon;
dave rezendes;
jimmy hensley;

 final points standings .

bobby labonte - 4264;
kenny wallace - 4190;
robert pressley - 3929;
chuck bown - 3922;
jimmy hensley - 3916;
joe nemechek - 3902;
todd bodine - 3825;
tommy houston - 3777;
tom peck - 3746;
steve grissom - 3689;
jeff gordon - 3582;
jeff burton - 3533;
david green - 3389;
bobby dotter - 3327;
tracy leslie - 3326;
butch miller - 3255 ;
dave rezendes - 3172;
ward burton - 3145;
ed berrier - 3067;
elton sawyer - 2481;
harry gant - 2309;
troy beebe - 2274;
dale jarrett - 2172;
cecil eunice - 2097;
richard lasater - 1989;
ed ferree - 1837;
dale earnhardt - 1799;
ernie irvan - 1551;
jeff green - 1396;
darrell waltrip -  1305;
davey allison - 1303;
morgan shepherd - 1298;
tommy ellis - 1253;
michael waltrip - 1246;
ken schrader - 1180;
jack ingram - 1080;
dick trickle - 1050;
mike oliver - 1000;
mike wallace - 907;
ricky craven - 782;
jim bown - 743;
jimmy spencer - 636;
jack sprague - 629;
joe bessey - 623;
mike mclaughlin - 620;
phil parsons - 605;
jamie aube - 573;
terry labonte - 560;
jay fogleman - 538;
patty moise - 494;

 rookie of the year .
20-year-old jeff gordon, driving for the newly-formed bill davis racing, won rookie of the year honors in 1991, starting 30 of 31 races and finishing in the top-five five times. the top runner-up was david green, who was released from his filmar racing ride at season's end. tracy leslie, troy beebe, cecil eunice, and richard lasater were the only other drivers to attempt a full schedule.

 external links .
busch series standings and statistics for 1991;








</doc>
<doc id="8648277" title="henry singer keating" nonfiltered="325" processed="319" dbindex="327">
sir henry singer keating (1804-1888) was a british lawyer.
 
he became a barrister at the inner temple in 1832, and a queen's counsel in 1849. he served in government as solicitor general for england and wales from 1857-8 and in 1859. he sat as a judge of common pleas from 1859-75.  










</doc>
<doc id="4932765" title="naka fushiki station" nonfiltered="326" processed="320" dbindex="328">
the  is a city tram station on the takaoka kid  line located in takaoka, toyama prefecture, japan. 

surrounding area.
near the jr west himi line fushiki station and the ferry port.













</doc>
<doc id="3330860" title="main st. markham (viva)" nonfiltered="327" processed="321" dbindex="329">



main st. markham is a proposed vivastation on york region's viva bus rapid transit system, north of toronto, ontario, canada. it will open roughly in july 1, 2007 at the intersection of  main street markham and highway 7 in markham, ontario. it will be on the viva purple and viva green lines. note that this will be built as a vivavintage station, as it is in the historic district of markham, ontario.

york region transit routes that will connect to main st. markham:

 1 highway 7;

toronto transit commission routes that will connect to main st. markham:

 102 markham road;




</doc>
<doc id="1741449" title="the young master" nonfiltered="328" processed="322" dbindex="330">
the young master is a 1980 martial arts film that stars jackie chan as dragon.

the film is notable for being the first that jackie chan worked on for golden harvest, and despite being his second film as director (his first was fearless hyena), this is often credited as his directorial debut. it was co-written by chan and king sang tang and produced by raymond chow and leonard ho.

synopsis.

in the film, the school attended by dragon and his brother, tiger (wei pei) is entered against a rival school in a lion dance competition. the school needs to win the prize money to remain open but their star performer, tiger, is seemingly injured when he falls from a ladder, leaving his brother, dragon, to take his place. during the competition, dragon realises that his brother feigned his accident in order to take part in the competition for the rival school.

the rival school wins the competition, but the truth emerges about tiger's betrayal and he is exiled in disgrace. dragon vows to bring back his errant brother so the pair can make amends to their master. dragon sets off on his mission, but en route is mistaken for a criminal known as the white fan by local police chief, sang kung (played by shih kien). meanwhile, tiger collaborates with his employers (the rival school) by freeing a dangerous criminal known as kam. however, tiger is later framed for a bank robbery. to stop his brother from being arrested, dragon promises to apprehend the escapee, kam.


trivia.
the young master was the highest box office draw of its day beating previous box office records set by bruce lee and establishing chan as a hong kong cinema's top star.

the fan-fighting scene in this movie required 329 takes to complete.

the climactic showdown between real life hapkido master hwang in-shik and jackie chan in the original release of this film was approximately 15 minutes long, reputedly the longest fight scene in any kung-fu movie to that date. subsequent releases of the film have edited this scene down for time.

the first version of the film was said to be roughly three hours in length. there are two main versions available though, one being the 106 minutes (ntsc/film speed) hong kong cut and the 90 minute international cut. plus, there is a rare taiwanese video which features footage not in either the hong kong or international cuts. this being said, there is approximately an hour of unseen young master footage that has not been seen since it's first edit.

cast.
 jackie chan;
 yuen biao;
 feng tien;
 feng feng;
 wei pei;
 shih kien;
 li li-li;
 whang ing-sik;
 fung hark-on;
 lee hoi san;
 fan mui sang;
 tang yim chan;

external links.
;










</doc>
<doc id="5843108" title="konstantin raudive" nonfiltered="329" processed="323" dbindex="331">


dr. konstantin raudive (1906-1974), a student of carl jung, was a psychologist who taught at the university of uppsala in sweden. he was preoccupied with parapsychological interests all his life (especially with the possibility of life after death), and he kept in close contact with leading british psychical researchers.

electronic voice phenomena (evp) were investigated by him and a german parapsychologist hans bender. following the publication of raudive's book on his research (breakthrough, 1971) these phenomena are now often referred to as "raudive voices".

in 1964, raudive read friedrich j\fcrgenson s book, voices from space, and was so impressed by it that he arranged to meet j\fcrgenson in 1965. he then worked with j\fcrgenson to make some evp recordings, but their first efforts bore little fruit, although they believed that they could hear very weak, muddled voices. according to raudive, however, one night, as he listened to one recording, he clearly heard a number of voices. when he played the tape over and over, he came to understand all of them, some of which were in german, some in latvian, some in french. the last voice on the tape, a woman s voice, said "va dormir, margarete" ("go to sleep, margaret").

raudive later wrote (in breakthrough): "these words made a deep impression on me, as margarete petrautzki had died recently, and her illness and death had greatly affected me." amazed by this, he started researching such voices on his own and spent much of the last ten years of his life exploring evp. with the help of various electronics experts he recorded over 100,000 audiotapes, most of which were made under what he described as "strict laboratory conditions." he collaborated at times with bender. over 400 people were involved in his research, and all apparently heard the voices. this culminated in the 1971 publication of breakthrough.

raudive developed several different approaches to recording evp, and he referred to:

 microphone voices: one simply leaves the tape recorder running, with no one talking; he indicated that one can even disconnect the microphone.
 radio voices: one records the white noise from a radio that is not tuned to any station.
 diode voices: one records from what is essentially a crystal set not tuned to a station.

raudive delineated a number of characteristics of the voices, (as laid out in breakthrough):

 "the voice entities speak very rapidly, in a mixture of languages, sometimes as many as five or six in one sentence.";
 "they speak in a definite rhythm, which seems forced on them.";
 "the rhythmic mode imposes a shortened, telegram-style phrase or sentence.";
 probably because of this, "  grammatical rules are frequently abandoned and neologisms abound.";

external links.
 biography of konstantin raudive.







</doc>
<doc id="7639545" title="tommy mandel" nonfiltered="330" processed="324" dbindex="332">
tommy mandel (born new york city) is a keyboardist who is most famous for playing with bryan adams, from 1981 to 1998, starting with bryan adams's album you want it you got it.

he's also played with dire straits and others.

discography.
with bryan adams.
you want it you got it;
cuts like a knife;
reckless;
into the fire;
live! live! live! (album);
waking up the neighbours;
so far so good;
the best of me;
anthology 1980-2005;
with dire straits.
;

external link.
official site;





</doc>
<doc id="8848728" title="crescente err\e1zuriz" nonfiltered="331" processed="325" dbindex="333">
monsignor crescente err\e1zuriz valdivieso (november 18, 1839 - july 5, 1931) was a chilean dominican friar, roman catholic archbishop of santiago, professor, writer and historian.

life.
he was born in santiago, chile the sixth child of francisco javier de err\e1zuriz y aldunate and of his second wife, rosario fern\e1ndez de valdivieso y za\f1artu (sister to archbishop rafael valent\edn valdivieso.) he studied at the school of the fern\e1ndez d\edaz sisters and the justino fagalde school, in santiago and from there he attended the santiago seminary in 1851. he graduated in theology and law. subsequently, he decided to embrace the ecclesiastical career. he became a priest on december 18, 1863, and was appointed editor of the la revista cat\f3lica (catholic magazine). in 1874 founded a new magazine called el estandarte cat\f3lico (catholic banner) in order to defend the church position and respond to the liberal attacks. one year earlier, he had also become a member of the faculty of theology of the university of chile, teaching cannon law, and writing the standard text on the subject.

in 1885, he left the university to seclude himself in the recoleta dom\ednica convent, adopting the name of raimundo. there he was put in charge of the library, which he transformed in the most important private library in chile. in 1898, he became the convent abbot, position he retained until 1907. during his time in the convent, he published his massive los or\edgenes de la iglesia chilena (origins of the chilean church), which made him the premier church historian. due to his publications and researches, he was incorporated to the royal academy of the spanish language. he was also given the gold medal of the historical and geographical society of chile in 1912, and became the president of the chilean academy of history in 1914. in 1916, he returned to his position in the university.

in 1918 he was nominated as archbishop of the santiago archdiocese by president juan luis sanfuentes. monsignor err\e1zuriz was considered a peace offering in preparation for the heated presidential campaing of 1920, even though he was already 71 years old. pope benedict xv named him on december 30, 1918, adopting the motto: cruz et evangelium ecce arma mea.

he promoted a policy to make the catholic church independent from the conservative party. in 1920 he proposed the creation of the bishoprics of valpara\edso and talca. in 1924 he presided over the separation of the church and the state, consecrated in the constitution of 1925. he was the voice that gave serenity and long term vision to the negotiations. monsignor err\e1zuriz died in 1931 at the age of 91.

ecclesiastical life.




additional information.
see also.
errazuriz family;
history of chile;

sources.
biography ;
catholic hierarchy  ;
article on his nomination as archbishop ;

external links.
genealogical chart of err\e1zuriz family ;








</doc>
<doc id="6737619" title="mih?ileni" nonfiltered="332" processed="326" dbindex="334">
mih ileni may refer to several places in romania:

 mih ileni, a commune in boto ani county;
 mih ileni, a commune in harghita county;
 mih ileni, a commune in sibiu county;
 mih ileni, a village in imone ti commune, harghita county;
 mih ileni, a village in buce  commune, hunedoara county;

and several places in moldova:

 mih ileni, a village in raionul r\ee cani;
 mih ilenii noi, a village in raionul r\ee cani;
 mih ileni, a village in raionul briceni;



</doc>
<doc id="6742314" title="david rendall" nonfiltered="333" processed="327" dbindex="335">
david rendall (born april 22, 1986 in toronto, ontario, canada) is a young canadian actor with frequent recurring roles as ted on radio free roscoe and vern on dark oracle. he has also guest starred in episodes of department s and 1-800-missing.

he has also won the toronto sprockets film festival jump cuts award two years running for his short films, entitled getaway and birthday monkey.

david is the older brother of mark rendall.

external links.
, david rendall at tv.com;
, david rendall at imdb.com;








</doc>
<doc id="2458714" title="great br?ila island" nonfiltered="334" processed="328" dbindex="336">
the great br ila island (insula mare a br ilei, formerly balta mare a br ilei, the "great br ila pond") is an island on the danube river in the br ila county, romania. it has on average 60 km length and 20 km width. the two river branches which separate it from the mainland are m cin and cremenea.

currently, 681.3 km2 (94.6% of the area of island) are occupied by agricultural terrains of which 70.84 km2 are irrigated and is protected by a dam having a length of 23.5 km. on the island there are two communes, frec  ei and m ra u, which have about 5,000 inhabitants.

it used to be a series of swamps, until the communist regime desiccated it and built dams using forced labour of political detainees (many of whom died there) and transformed it to an agricultural area. there were five "re-education camps" at gr dina, lunca, salcia, stoiene ti and str\e2mba veche. the terrain proved to be fertile and it was declared a "success of communism in romania".

references.
 edi ie special , 26 july 2005 (part 1), (part 2);
 jurnalul na ional, 4 august 2005, b r ganul dintre bra ele dun rii;






</doc>
<doc id="7958391" title="banksia 'lemon glow'" nonfiltered="335" processed="329" dbindex="337">

banksia 'lemon glow', also known by its extended cultivar name banksia spinulosa var. cunninghamii 'lemon glow', is a form of banksia spinulosa var. cunninghamii with lemon-yellow flowers. it was selected by alf salkin from a wild population on french island, victoria, and registered as a cultivar on 5 october 1982.

unlike its parent species, its flower styles are yellow rather than black. in all other respects it is typical of b. spinulosa var. cunninghamii.

references.
 ;





</doc>
<doc id="7839188" title="miami twice (part one)" nonfiltered="336" processed="330" dbindex="338">

miami twice was a two-part christmas special addition of the bbc sit-com, only fools and horses. the first episode, sub-titled the american dream, was first screened on 24 december 1991.

synopsis.

a few months after his birth, damien derek trotter, son of del boy and raquel, is christened in a church, much to rodney's horror, although he is slowly patching things up with cassandra by staying with her on weekends, and staying with del and albert on weekdays. while del makes a deal with the vicar to give him pre-blessed red wine, alan reminds rodney about how he signed up for the printing firm's pension fund. and since rodney quit working for the firm in "the chance of a lunchtime", he gets his pension money as a result.

at the nag's head, cassandra's parents both get themselves drunk, although pam drinks more than alan. also, mike warns the rest of the gang about what's been going on in the united states of america, as shown on the news.

a few days later, at sid's cafe, del tells rodney about how he can get him and cassandra back together instantly: a holiday in miami, because del has tickets.

later that night at nelson mandela house, rodney furiously enters, because cassandra can't go because she's attending a few meetings with the higher-ups of her bank. when rodney gets ready to go to sleep, he notices damien looking at him. del calls rodney through the baby monitor, making rodney think that the devil in damien is speaking to him.

raquel suggests that del go to miami with rodney, and he agrees with the suggestion and tells his younger brother.

and so, the episode ends as the trotter brothers board their plane to america, not knowing what they're going to get themselves into...

story arc.
outside the nag's head after damien's christening, cassandra tells rodney that she is not dressing up as a victorian maid for anyone. this foreshadows what happened in rodney's futuristic nightmare of peckham in 2026 in "heroes and villains" when cassandra dresses up as a maid after damien bought out her bank.

errors.
rodney and cassandra are seen in the beer garden of the nag's head with benches, soft lights, and patio. yet the carpark in "dates" when the police pull up to the rear of the nag's head looks a little different.
outside the church where damien is christened,  rodney seems to have a very good tan before he goes to miami.

external links.
"miami twice" at bbc.co.uk;








</doc>
<doc id="5743005" title="tri-institutional md-phd program" nonfiltered="337" processed="331" dbindex="339">



the tri-institutional md-phd, or tri-i, program is an innovative biomedical partnership between the weill cornell medical college (wmc), the rockefeller university(ru) and memorial sloan-kettering cancer center (mskcc). located in the upper east side of new york city, the tri-i campus is led by harold varmus (president of mskcc), sir paul nurse (president of ru) and antonio gotto is the dean of wmc. dr. olaf andersen of weill cornell directs and ruth gotian manages the program.

program.

students complete medical studies at weill cornell and may choose a phd thesis advisor in any of the institutions. each year about 350 students apply for on average 12 positions; the positions are funded by national institutes of health medical scientist training program (mstp) for the full length of training (usually 7-8 years). applicants often have strong undergraduate science preparation, extensive laboratory experience and strong mcat test scores.

the medical curriculum is characterized by problem based learning and early exposure to medical interviewing. while the cornell medical center is frequented by manhattan celebrities and the wealthy, opportunities to serve in the new student-run free clinic or abroad in haiti, brazil, tanzania or weill cornell-qatar campus are also available.

students arrive the july 4th weekend before their first year of medical school to complete one of three rotations for the summer. the first year curriculum is similar to cornell md students except that md-phd students take frontiers in biomedical sciences i (frontiers). students complete a second rotation after their first year and complete second year of cornell md curriculum while taking frontiers ii and the usmle in june. the thesis years (3,4,5 and maybe 6 and 7): students complete thesis research and graduate school requirements in one of the 270 laboratories on tri-i campus. clinical electives and courses are offered to keep students up to date with their medical training and clinical skills. during the 6th and 7th years, students complete clinical requirements at cornell and pursue any electives.

reputation.
the tri-i program boasts extensive medical and basic science resources. notable achievements in the past year include the ranking of mskcc as the nation's top cancer center, new york-presbyterian hospital ranked 7th by the u.s. news & world report, and rockefeller university as a top biomedical graduate school for cell and molecular biology, biochemistry and structural biology. the institution has been associated with 23 nobel prize winners in its 100 year history.

notable faculty.
harold varmus - nobel laureate, president of mskcc;
lloyd old - discoverer of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, mskcc;
sir paul nurse - nobel laureate, president of ru;
antonio gotto - cariologist, dean of weill cornell;
rod mackinnon - nobel laureate, ru;
paul greengard - nobel laureate, ru;
david ho - hiv/aids, time man of the year in 1996, ru;
jeffrey friedman - discoverer of leptin, ru;

housing.
subsidized housing by the program is available to tri-i students for all years. the first year is based in olin hall with dorm-style rooms, at 69th st and york avenue across the street from the medical college, while years 2-4 are based in lasdon hall with apartment style rooms. students have option of moving to sloan kettering or rockefeller housing for years 5-completion.

placement.
the students often proceed to internal medicine or pathology residencies either at weill cornell medical college, harvard university (brigham and women's hospital, massachusetts general hospital) or university of california, san francisco. the program has been successful, as 80% of the nearly 150 graduates now hold academic posts in a basic research or clinical capacity.

see also.
weill medical college of cornell university;
weill graduate school of medical sciences of cornell university;

references.


external links.
tri-institutional md-phd program website;
weill medical college of cornell university website;
the rockefeller university website;
memorial sloan-kettering cancer center website;




</doc>
<doc id="2583840" title="texas red" nonfiltered="338" processed="332" dbindex="340">



for the professional wrestler, see mark calaway;
for the food, see chili con carne.

texas red (tr) is a red fluorescent dye, with a molecular weight of 625 daltons, used in histology for staining cell specimens.  texas red is a sulfonyl chloride derivate of sulforhodamine 101. it is used for fluorescent-activated cell sorting machines, in fluorescence microscopy applications, and in immunohistochemistry. it can be excited by a dye laser tuned to 595-605 nm, or less efficiently a krypton laser at 567 nm.

texas red fluoresces at about 615 nm, and its absorption maximum for the excitation photons is at 589 nm. it is relatively bright, therefore can show even weakly expressed antigens. 

texas red is a marker of proteins, with which it easily form conjugates. a protein with the chromophore attached can then act as a fluorescent labelling agent; an antibody with a fluorescent marker attached will bind to a specific antigen and then show the location of the antigens as shining spots when irradiated. other molecules can be labeled by texas red as well, eg. various toxins.

texas red, attached to a strand of dna or rna, is a molecular beacon for highlighting specific sequentions of dna. texas red is a  derivative of sulforhodamine 101 
texas red can be linked with another fluorophore. a tandem conjugate of texas red with r-phycoerythrin (pe-texas red) is often used.

fluorophores, like texas red, are commonly used in molecular biology techniques like quantitative rt-pcr and cellular assays.  





</doc>
<doc id="2506092" title="yuho iwasato" nonfiltered="339" processed="333" dbindex="341">

iwasato yuho      (believed to be born in 1957, niigata prefecture origin) is a popular writer of anime theme songs.  she is also known by another pen name of iwasato mio.  in addition, she has written lyrics for some japanese singers including maaya sakamoto, miki imai and many others. she is known to be a close friend (in working field) of miki imai, yoko kanno, arai akino and also maaya sakamoto. 

biography.
a classical and yet now modern lyrical writer, she started her lyrical works officially in the mid-1980s. she is well contact with yoko kanno and always travelled the anime world along with her. her latest work is in theme and insert songs from sousei no aquarion anime.  most of her songs were sung by arai akino; one song tori ni natte (change into birds) was sung by aoi.

she writes for miki imai as early from late 80's time. miki imai is considered as one of her best friends; she is also friends with yoko kanno. iwasato yuho is also considered as a secretive person on her whereabouts nor biological details, but she never keeps her thoughts to herself and always kept them written in songs for people around the world to discover her through it. piece of my wish which was sung in 1991 by miki imai has given a mark in history to one of her works. a beautiful song of friendship in between lovers whom were far apart.

maaya sakamoto songs were simply moved by her writings started around year 1996 with the release of "yakusoku wa iranai" (i don't need a promise), a simply lovely song sang by a lovely person, composed by yoko kanno and written by her. there is many more songs written in most of maaya sakamoto songs by her. her writings are mostly nice to listen again and again. her writings strengthen more onto hope and a nice peaceful life. there is a few quotes, from her writings which images what she generally wanted to tell to all of her listeners:

recently she's writing a book which concerns interior designs with a working field with her husband. sources: s-woman.net be comfortable' interview: iwasato yuho

works.
 miki imai .
here is some songs which she wrote. the songs dated as far back as the early 80's. she wrote a lot of classical songs and some songs also became a hit in the japanese songs records.
(a good preference for japanese classical lovers)

english titles
 after all;
 a place in the sun;
 bluebird;
 blue moon blue;
 miss you;
 the days i spent with you;
 piece of my wish (1991);
 presents for you;
 pray;
 ruby;
 satellite hour;

japanese titles
 ame ni kissu no hanataba wo	         ;
 atarashii machi de		     ;
 chijou ni oriru made no yoru	          ;
 kiiroi tiibui 		   tv;
 kare ha mou ko nai desho u	           ;
 kyuu tsuki hantou		9   ;
 motto motto motto 		           ;
 hitomi ga hohoemu kara	        ;
 hatsukoi no you ni		      ;
 hansode			  ;
 suteki na uwasa (piece clips)	      ;
 tomodachi			   ;
 umibe nite			    ;
 omoide ni sasagu (2004);
 ai no uta (2005)                  ;
 luna (2006)			;
 usuki kurenai moyou (2006)	    ;


2006 songs are from milestone album (miki imai) couple with ai no uta as it's opening, and piece of my wish as it's ending


 kokoro library - anime ost .
 beagle (a puppy);
 tsuki wa miteiru (look at the moon);

 maaya sakamoto .
 i & i ;
 grapefruit;
 pocket o kara ni shite (empty the pocket);
 aoi hitomi (blue eyes);
 yakusoku wa iranai;
 tomodachi;
 kaze ga fuku hi;
 hashiru ;
 dive;
 getsuyo no asa;
 bokura no rekishi;
 gift;
 kimi ni ai niikou;
 hikari no naka e;
 light of love;
 kiseki no umi;
 active heart;
 platina (purachina);
 kinobori to akai skirt;
 kuuki to hoshi;
 rule ~ iro asenai hibi;
 yubiwa (ring);
 yuuca (yukka: noun of a white flower);
 kodokou (loneliness);
 sukurappu ~ wakare no shi;
 mahiru ga yuki;
 yoru;
 bike (ed from chikyuu shoujo arjuna);
 tune the rainbow (ed from rahxephon movie);
 hemisphere;
 ongaku;
 cloud 9;

yuunagi loop (2005)
 yunizon unison ;
 paprika;

 arai akino .

 sousei ni aquarion ost .
 kouya no heath;
 pride ~ nakegi no tabi;
 onni sama to (opening theme 01);
 toori ni natte (become birds) -song by aoi;

 decade - aya hisakawa character song collection 1989-1998 .
 mangetsu no shiwaza     (full moon light);

 the third op theme 2006 .
 sajou no yume (yuuko sasaki);

novels.
iwasato yuho wrote a japanese novel entitled         or memoire d'amour or memories of love, sources tells that this book is about a story of a lonely woman. that woman was describe as "the hateful woman", which in other words means that no ones likes her. that woman smokes and desires for a strong monopolistic life. she is the type of woman who will cause trouble to someone else but failing to notice that she was doing such. the story went on and later she found a man whom she wanted to love. the everyday life later becomes mixed up until comes to a point where she accidentally fell in love with that person. in response to her confession of love, that person did not return a 
good response. as the story progress, she finally noticed about her life in the past and unintently felt sympathy for herself. this novel is viewed on a person who feels like leaving oneself, being sensitive and can be called as pitiful. conclusion of the story is that the woman lived on with her life, but with a content and calm heart to start with. she has kept her hopes and wishes close within her heart even as it means for the rest of her life, which is to live lone.

 external links .
 review in japanese language;
 decade link;
 ichinen miura (    );
 hirofumi nagai. page for maaya sakamoto~ iwasato yuuho main biography site (japanese language);
 maaya no uta~;
 be comfortable' interview: iwasato yuho;






</doc>
<doc id="6533021" title="code 13" nonfiltered="340" processed="334" dbindex="342">
code 13 is a minneapolis, minnesota-based hardcore band formed by ex-members of the defunct band destroy.

in the words of member and havoc records founder felix havoc:

 after destroy broke up i hooked up with tattoo shane and trevor trend and began jamming with a series of drummers. we put up an ad at extreme noise and attracted criminal shane on drums. code 13 was an attempt on my part to move past the grind and metal influence on destroy back to a more old school hardcore sound. still, code 13 is not a retro-80's band by any respect, although the 80's influence is there, many of our songs clock in at speeds undreamed of in '82.
 code 13's music is hard for me to describe because we mix several different styles. i'm not saying we're particularly original or groundbreaking, but our music was far from generic as well. simply put, we didn't all listen to just one style of music so our playing wasn't rigidly influenced by one style either. we mixed sing-a-long 80's hardcore like early 7 seconds and youth brigade with fast-core like dropdead and a touch of early dri, straight edge hardcore, swedish hc/ japanese thrash, 80's anarcho-punk and some grind/power violence for a fast and powerful punk sound. lyrically i'd have to say the individual versus society and issues of social control predominate.
 the name code 13 comes from the police radio code for "officer down" and as you can guess our lyrics were heavily anti-police and authority. for a while four out of five of our shows were broken up by the man, but hardcore survives on the underground and so did we. at the time i felt like the hardcore/punk scene was too complacent and needed some really radical thrashing punk to bring band the anger and energy. i went out of my way to write radical, aggressive lyrics to go with the music. we stirred up no small controvery, posing with automatic weapons and singing about shooting cops. one anarchist squat in paris actually wouldn't let us play because we were "too militant" i knew we were doing something right then.

all of the group's albums to date have been on the havoc records label.

 discography .

 doomed society 7" ep (1995);
 they made a wasteland and called it peace 7" ep ;
 a part of america died today 7" ep (1998);
 split 7 with ds-13 (2000);
 complete discography 1994-2000 cd (2000);

 external links .

 code 13 on havoc records;



</doc>
<doc id="3219930" title="137th battalion, cef" nonfiltered="341" processed="335" dbindex="344">
the 137th battalion, cef was a unit in the canadian expeditionary force during the first world war.  based in calgary, alberta, the unit began recruiting in late 1915 in that city.  after sailing to england in august 1916, the battalion was absorbed into the 21st reserve battalion on january 10, 1917.  the 137th battalion, cef had one officer commanding: lieut-col. g. w. morfitt.

the battalion is perpetuated by the king's own calgary regiment (rcac).

references.
meek, john f. over the top! the canadian infantry in the first world war. orangeville, ont.: the author, 1971.



</doc>
<doc id="4509284" title="monarch of the solomon islands" nonfiltered="342" processed="336" dbindex="345">

|
|
|}
the head of state of the solomon islands is queen elizabeth ii. the solomon islands share the sovereign with a number of commonwealth realms. the queen's constitutional roles have been almost entirely delegated to the governor-general of the solomon islands. 
royal succession is governed by the english act of settlement of 1701, which is part of constitutional law. 





</doc>
<doc id="756541" title="achille occhetto" nonfiltered="343" processed="337" dbindex="346">

achille occhetto (born 3 march 1936), nicknamed akel, is an italian political figure. 

biography.
occhetto was born in turin. he served as the secretary-general of the italian communist party (pci) between 1988 and 1994 (which became the democratic party of the left halfway through his term in 1991, also known as the pds, and is now the main part of the democrats of the left).

he served as secretary of the youth communist movement from 1963 to 1966 and, subsequently, as regional secretary of the italian communist party in sicily, distinguishing himself for his war against any kind of mafia.

appointed in 1986 as national coordinator of the pci, he became then the party leader in 1988, succeeding to alessandro natta. during his secretarship, the party witnessed the collapse of both the berlin wall and the communist regime in the soviet union. he therefore declared the communist experience as over, and dissolved the pci in order to form a new party, the pds, characterized by a progressive left-wing stance.

this political shift (known in italian politics as the bolognina) was not accepted by approximately one third of the communist members, which refused to join the pds and instead founded the communist refoundation party.

in 1994, he challenged and was defeated by silvio berlusconi in the general election; because of this negative result he then quit the party secretaryship.

he came actively back in politics for the 2004 european elections, being elected to the european parliament on a joint ticket with anti-corruption campaigner antonio di pietro, but he immediately resigned to be replaced by giulietto chiesa. after the 2006 general election he returned to the european parliament by taking up one of the seats vacated by an elected deputy, and sits as an independent member of the party of european socialists group. 

it has been recently rumoured about a possible joining of occhetto to the communist refoundation party, but he sharply denied this possibility, affirming to have supposed just the birth of a "left-wing refoundation", including democrats of the left, greens, sdi and the communist refoundation party itself.













 external links .
 a declaration about "il cantiere", a new political project;







</doc>
<doc id="7817968" title="faxe kondi" nonfiltered="344" processed="338" dbindex="347">

faxe kondi is a danish soft drink produced by faxe bryggeri. it is marketed as a sports drink, as it contains both glucose and sugar, as well as caffeine. it has been produced since 1971.

external links.
 danish official site;








</doc>
<doc id="3009722" title="cronstedtite" nonfiltered="345" processed="339" dbindex="348">

cronstedtite is a complex iron silicate mineral belonging to the serpentine group of minerals. it has a formula of fe2+2fe3+(si,fe3+o5)(oh)4. 

it was discovered in 1821 and named in honor of swedish mineralogist axel fredrik cronstedt (1722-1765). it has been found in bohemia in the czech republic and in cornwall, england.

references.
american mineralogical society;
mindat with locations;
webmineral;









</doc>
<doc id="1285104" title="grape-nuts" nonfiltered="346" processed="340" dbindex="349">


grape-nuts is a breakfast cereal developed by c. w. post in 1897. post was a patient and later competitor of the 19th-century breakfast food innovator, dr. john harvey kellogg.  neither grapes nor nuts have ever been ingredients in the cereal. the original formula for grape-nuts called for grape sugar, which is composed mostly of glucose unlike most other sugar sources and food sweeteners which are principally sucrose. this, combined with the "nutty" flavor of the cereal inspired its name.  but some employees at post claim that the cereal got its name because the tiny nuggets resemble grape seeds or grape "nuts". 

grape-nuts was soon marketed as a natural cereal that could enhance health and vitality, and also as a "brain food." during the 1960s, advertising for the brand promoted grape-nuts as the cereal that "fills you up, not out." brand users, particularly "mother/daughter look-alikes," were shown engaged in fitness activities such as tennis, horseback riding, skiing, and swimming.

this ad campaign produced at least one television commercial featuring a "catch-phrase" that became a target for numerous sketches, comics, riffs, and take-offs in other media. spanning the ensuing two decades, "oh no, mrs. burke! i thought you were dale!" continued to appear in comedy. this line is remembered today by most who saw the 1968 through 1970 commercial, while it is also familiar to many people too young to have seen the original tv spots.

an ad campaign following the above utilized a similarly catchy phrase, as euell gibbons became the spokesperson for the brand, promoting grape-nuts as the "back to nature cereal." the line, "ever eat a pine tree?", proved to draw increased attention to the product from consumers, as well as from comedians of all sorts.  gibbons made the tv ads until he died on december 29, 1975.

the cereal is now produced by post cereals.

trivia.

"grape-nuts pudding" is a regional new england dessert. 

grape-nuts is accredited with being the first product to use a coupon in sales promotion when c.w. post company offered a penny-off coupon to get people to try their cereal in the late 1890s.

grape-nuts were mentioned on mad tv in a sketch where will sasso was acting as arnold schwarzenegger who imitates jerry seinfeld and says: "what is the deal with grape-nuts? they re not grapes, and they re not nuts. what is the deal?" 

see also.
 granula;

external links.
 kraft foods inc.;
 burke family grape-nuts tv commercial archives;

references.
 jones, evan (1981) american food: the gastronomic story, random house, inc.  isbn 0-394-74646-5;




</doc>
<doc id="1235941" title="roberto mieres" nonfiltered="347" processed="341" dbindex="350">

roberto mi\e8res (born december 3, 1924) is a former formula one driver from mar del plata, argentina.  he participated in 17 grands prix, debuting on june 7, 1953.  he scored a total of 13 championship points.

complete formula one results.
(note: grands prix in bold denote points scoring races.)















</doc>
<doc id="1646169" title="addressee" nonfiltered="348" processed="342" dbindex="351">
in linguistics, an addressee is an intended direct recipient of the speaker's communication.  a listener is either an addressee or a bystander.

second-person pronouns refer to an addressee or a group including an addressee.  an inclusive first-person pronoun refers to a group including both the speaker and the addressee, while an exclusive first-person pronoun refers to a group including the speaker but not the addressee.

a speaker can show politeness, familiarity, or a difference of social status to the addressee.  this is called an addressee honorific.  see also t-v distinction.

 external links .
sil glossary of linguistic terms - what is an addressee?;




</doc>
<doc id="1122013" title="rete testis" nonfiltered="349" processed="343" dbindex="352">

rete testis is an anastomosing network of delicate tubules located in the hilum of the testicle (mediastinum testis) that carries sperm from the seminiferous tubules to the vasa efferentia.

rete tubular ectasia is a disorder of the rete testis in which many benign cysts are present.

in the area of the rete testis, the sperm are concentrated as fluid and is reabsorbed.  if this does not occur, the sperm which enter the epididymides are not concentrated and infertility is the end result.

additional images.


external links.
 image at uc davis;
 diagram;
 diagram;






</doc>
<doc id="4854374" title="alhamazad the wise" nonfiltered="351" processed="344" dbindex="354">
in the dungeons and dragons world of greyhawk campaign setting, alhamazad the wise is a powerful human wizard of baklunish descent, and is one of the newest members of the circle of eight.

references.
brown, anne. player's guide to greyhawk (tsr, 1998).

mona, erik, and gary holian. "wheels within wheels: greyhawk's circle of eight." living greyhawk journal #0 (paizo publishing, 2000). available online: ;

moore, roger e. return of the eight (tsr, 1998).






</doc>
<doc id="927409" title="british walk of fame" nonfiltered="352" processed="345" dbindex="355">
 
the british walk of fame is an attraction based on the hollywood walk of fame located on piccadilly circus in london. unlike the original it focuses on popular music personalities. the first inductee, on august 23, 2004, was led zeppelin guitarist jimmy page.
external link.
usa today story;







</doc>
<doc id="385618" title="jaka's story" nonfiltered="353" processed="346" dbindex="356">
jaka's story is a graphic novel written and drawn by dave sim, with background art by gerhard.  the fifth book in the cerebus the aardvark series, it is regarded by many as the series' highpoint and a classic of the medium, thanks to its subtle characterisation, expert pacing and innovative use of the comic-book medium.



the title character of the series is relegated to the sidelines in jaka's story.  instead, the action focuses on jaka, the love of cerebus' life.  supporting characters include rick nash, her naive, enthusiastic husband; pud withers, the harmless-seeming, but emasculated and mother-worshipping landlord who lusts after her; and oscar, a flamboyant poet based on oscar wilde who is friends with rick.  the plot of the book is almost entirely driven by the interactions of these characters until, at the end of the second act, the matriarchial cirinist fascists who rule the city-state of iest arrest rick, jaka and oscar and kill pud.  jaka and rick are freed due to jaka's diplomatic connections, but not before rick is told that his wife had an illegal abortion when she was carrying his son.  a furious rick vows never to see jaka again.  jaka returns to palnu, her home city.  cerebus himself spends much of the book lying in jaka's spare bed mooning after her.  in the third act he only appears in one double-page spread.

in addition to the main storyline, there are a number of text pages interspersed throughout jaka's story, written in an accurate imitation of wilde's flowery style. (sim's fascination with wilde would carry over into a subsequent graphic novel, melmoth.) they tell the story of jaka's childhood, somewhat inaccurately, as it later transpires.
these passages are meant to be excerpts of a novel jaka's story, written by oscar, and published in iest under the title daughter of palnu.

the comic-style pages of the book are extremely cinematic, with many long wordless passages and 'pans' imitating the movement of a movie camera. 

jaka's story collects issues 114-136 of the monthly cerebus comic book.



</doc>
<doc id="690809" title="arlington memorial bridge" nonfiltered="354" processed="347" dbindex="357">

arlington memorial bridge connects arlington national cemetery in arlington, virginia, with the lincoln memorial in washington, d.c. across the potomac river. the eastern end of the bridge marks the western edge of the national mall.

the bridge's construction was authorized by congress on february 24, 1925 and formally opened on january 16, 1932. designed by architectural firm mckim, mead and white, the neo-classical bridge is 2,163 feet (660 m) long. the ends of the bridge are flanked by two pairs of equestrian statues sculpted by leo friedlander.



the closest metro stop to the bridge is arlington cemetery.  the bridge connects, both literally and symbolically, the lincoln memorial and arlington house, the home of robert e. lee.  this placement was done intentionally to represent the reunification of the north and the south.  

at the western terminus on columbia island, the bridge and its connecting roadways connect with the george washington parkway and with state route 27 and state route 110.  at the eastern terminus, the bridge and its connecting roadways connect with constitution avenue, independence avenue, the rock creek and potomac parkway, and the district of columbia segment of interstate 66.

a peculiarity of the traffic circle at the western terminus is that traffic already in the circle must yield to traffic entering the circle   the exact opposite of the usual rule.  during morning rush hour, a portion of the traffic circle is closed to prevent mergers that would otherwise tie up rush-hour traffic.

source.
national park service website;







</doc>
<doc id="924131" title="california state route 125" nonfiltered="355" processed="348" dbindex="358">

state route 125 currently runs from state route 54 in san diego to state route 52 in santee, usa.

currently, construction is underway to extend route 125 from route 54 south to state route 905 and state route 11 in otay mesa near the u.s. mexico border. this portion, scheduled to open in 2007, will be a toll road called the south bay expressway.  it will be california's first road built as a public/private partnership. the toll road is being funded by the private company california transportation ventures, inc. and the following public agencies: the united states department of transportation, caltrans, san diego association of governments (sandag), and the city of chula vista.

the toll road's name is quite unusual, as it will be built to freeway standards and therefore should be labeled a freeway under both federal and california law.  see freeway and expressway for more information on the difference between the two.

route 125 was originally planned to continue north through east miramar to poway to connect with state route 56 and select arterial 680 but poway successfully blocked that by insisting caltrans upgrade state route 67 instead, leaving the northern terminus at state route 52.  there still are proposals to connect it to scripps poway parkway, or to take it all the way up to riverside parallel to interstate 15, creating a third full north/south freeway for san diego.  it is currently unlikely that will ever happen though.

history.

in the early 1990s, only the section south of interstate 8 and north of state route 94 was completed; confusingly, it was signed as state route 94, even though it met with both westbound and eastbound route 94 at its southern terminus. the route 125 signs later replaced the route 94 signs, although at the interstate 8 a "to" referring to route 94 is carried on the signs for route 125 south.

the northernmost portion of the current route 125 was built in stages. for a time, its northern terminus was at the current exits for amaya drive, later (circa 1992) further north at fletcher parkway, then even further at navajo road. the northernmost portion (north of grossmont college drive) was completed to state route 52 while the portion between navajo road and grossmont college drive was still under construction. as of 2005, this section has been completed.

in the early 2000s, further construction resulted in the third section of route 125, connecting southward from state route 94 to state route 54. as of late 2006, the interchange at routes 125 and 54 is still under construction (as a portion of the construction of the fourth portion of route 125, mentioned below), but traffic can pass along a two-lane detour through the construction zone. this allows southbound traffic on route 125 to continue to westbound state route 54, while eastbound state route 54 continues northbound on route 125.

a fourth section, under construction as of late 2006, will continue southward from state route 54. this is the south bay expressway toll road mentioned earlier in this article. several bridges along the route (notably the bridge over east h street in chula vista) can be visibly seen to be at or nearing completion (as of december 2006), and the route is marked as completed on 2007 thomas guide maps, implying that the project is still on schedule to meet its posted 2007 completion date.

state law.
legal definition of route 125: california streets and highways code, chapter 2, article 3, section 425 
 


external links.
california highways: route 125;
western exit guide - california 125;
south bay expressway: toll road sr-125 south of sr-54 to sr-905;





</doc>
<doc id="1809393" title="adventure into fear" nonfiltered="356" processed="349" dbindex="359">
adventure into fear, originally titled simply fear, is an american horror comic book published by marvel comics from november 1970 through december 1975, for 31 issues.

the first nine issues of fear reprinted science fiction/fantasy and monster stories from the late-1950s and early 1960s "pre-superhero marvel" comics, primarily journey into mystery, strange tales, tales to astonish, and tales of suspense. most were written by marvel editor-in-chief stan lee and/or larry lieber, and generally penciled by jack kirby, steve ditko, or don heck, though occasionally by paul reinman or joe sinnott. most covers were reprints, though marie severin drew the new top half of #4, john severin the cover of #8, and the team of gil kane (penciler) and frank giacoia (inker) the covers of #5, 6 and 9.

man-thing.
with issue #10 (oct. 1972), the series was retitled adventure into fear and began featuring new material.  issues #10-19 featured the swamp creature the man-thing, continuing from his introduction in the black-and-white comics-magazine savage tales #1 (may 1971). following a story by writer gerry conway, scripting was taken over by steve gerber, for whom the feature and eventual series man-thing would prove a signature work.  though issue #14, a back up reprint story would be featured, similar to those that appeared in the first nine issues.

the story in #19 (dec. 1973) introduced howard the duck, a cynical, cigar-smoking, anthropomorphic water fowl   a parody of disney-style funny animals   and intended as a minor throwaway character. that plan changed when the duck quickly proved popular, eventually one of marvel's biggest 1970s characters and a pop-culture phenomeonon who would later get a solo series as well as a notoriously disastrous feature film produced by george lucas.

morbius.

morbius, the living vampire, introduced in the amazing spider-man #101 (oct. 1971), became the starring feature with adventure into fear #20 (feb. 1974), and continued through the rest of the run. after a single issue by writer mike friedrich and penciler paul gulacy, gerber wrote several issues in which morbius went on a picaresque interdimensional journey and fought the caretakers of arcturus, followed by doug moench and bill mantlo. the round-robin of artists also included kane, p. craig russell, frank robbins, george evans, and heck. back up reprints shortly resumed in issue #20.  


bibliography.

fear #1-9; adventure into fear #10-31 (nov. 1970   dec. 1975);
morbius revisited #1-5 (aug. dec. 1993; reprints adventure into fear #27-31);
man-thing: whatever knows fear trade paperback (2005; includes reprint of adventure into fear #16);



</doc>
<doc id="7647219" title="malcolm wynn-jones" nonfiltered="357" processed="350" dbindex="360">

malcolm wynn-jones is the fictional mi5 analyst, featured in the british television series spooks, also known as mi5 in the united states. malcolm has been played by hugh simon since the start of spooks in 2002.

malcolm started out at the very beginning, as an analyst. in the script for one of his first episodes, he is described as being "an odd-looking man in a bow-tie. he sounds almost autistic--a walking intelligence encyclopaedia." nothing about his private life works its way into any storyline, but he does pose as ruth's brother "giles" when she falls for someone the team are watching, and we know from series 5 episode 6 that he is a collector of old 1970s bugs.

he is also adept at quoting from classical literature, for example
 memorable quote : our doubts are traitors, and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt. (shakespeare, "measure for measure", act 1 scene 4);



malcolm is distraught when his best friend and colleague colin wells is executed in series 5, episode 1.  senior case officer adam carter persuades malcolm to stay on the job after malcolm says that he can't pretend that nothing happened to colin.

another moment that malcolm shines as a weaker counterpart to mi5's adversaries is in the episode diana when he is faced with a bomb and has to cut a wire to stop it from going off, killing him and adam. he freezes, not knowing which wire to cut. he later reveals to ruth that "bravery is something i dread".




</doc>
<doc id="3968083" title="let's go to bed (the cure song)" nonfiltered="358" processed="351" dbindex="361">

let's go to bed is the name of a 1982 single by the cure. it later appeared on their compilation album japanese whispers.

in the aftermath of the bleak pornography, robert smith returned from a month-long detox in the lake district to write the antithesis to what the cure currently represented. written as a sarcastic reflection on sexual imagary in pop music, the single was a surprise hit. it was most successful in australia, reaching #15.

 history .

robert smith has often stated that he wished its b-side "just one kiss" was released as a single and many fans agree it is one of the best non-album songs from the cure.

the song was covered by new york pop band ivy for their 2002 album "guestroom". the video for the cover was shot, showcasing new york streets and coffeeshops. the smashing pumpkins' james iha, known for his love for and his own covers of the cure, appeared briefly in the video.

track listing.
7" single
 "let's go to bed";
 "just one kiss";
12" single
 "let's go to bed" (extended mix);
 "just one kiss" (extended mix);

 personnel .
 robert smith - vocals, guitar, bass, keyboard;
 lol tolhurst - keyboard;
 steve goulding - drums;

 references .



external links.
lyrics to "let's go to bed";





</doc>
<doc id="341822" title="peter garland" nonfiltered="359" processed="352" dbindex="362">
peter garland (born january 27, 1952 in portland, maine) is a composer  best known for publishing soundings press, one of the few sources of new music scores and articles while in print. a student of james tenney and harold budd, much of garland's work could be considered post-minimal, and he is also an expert on american indian music. he is the author of gone walkabout: essays 1991-.

he lives in maine.

discography.
1992 border music disc;
1992 walk in beauty albion;
1993 nana + victorio ;
2000 the days run away ;
2002 another sunrise ;
2005 love songs ;

compilations
 "the three strange angels" (1973), included on cold blue cold blue;
 "matachin dances" (1982), included on the complete ten-inch collection from cold blue cold blue;
 "apple blossom" included on persistence of past chemistries the orchard and launch sony;
 "dancing on water" included on dancing on water cold blue;

external links.
new albion artist: peter garland;
frog peak artist: peter garland;
other minds: peter garland;
mode artist profile: peter garland;










</doc>
<doc id="6957889" title="siege of kastania" nonfiltered="360" processed="353" dbindex="363">


the siege of kastania was fought in 1780 between the maniots and the klephts under kostantinos kolokotronis and panagiotaros venetsakis and the ottoman empire under ali bey. 

prelude.

the orlov revolt had been a disaster for the greeks that revolted against the ottomans and the maniots who were the only free greeks. the ottomans forced the maniots to pay tribute annually and to have a bey who came from mani. even though the maniots were bottled by the fierce turko-albanian soldiers who ravaged the peloponnese they still managed to cause damage to the ottomans with their pirate ships and with raids into laconia. amongst the most prominent were konstantinos kolokotronis and panagiotaros venetsakis.

from their towers in kastania they attacked ottoman lands and caused much damage. the pasha of the peloponnese, hass\e1n ghazi was preparing his invasion of mani and he saw that it to exterminate the kastanian menaces. when his fleet arrived at gytheio he sent 10,000 men under the command of his second in command, ali bey to deal with them.

the siege.

the maniots had heard that ali bey and panagiotaros sent a man to his father-in-law zanet grigorakis to bring a relief force. but zanet was busy preparing the rest of the maniot army with his uncle \c9xarchos grigorakis near their home town of skoutari. they resigned to the fact that they would have to fight alone. 

by the time the ottomans reached kastania from gytheio the defenders were ready for the siege. the maniots had gathered ammunition and food to last for around a dozen days. they tried to evacuate the children and women but their attempt were thrawted by the fact that they refuse to go. the defence was mainly concetrated around kolkotronis', panagiotaros' and panagiotaros' fathers pyrgoi. the elder panagiotaros was over 80 years old at the time and had been a renowned klepht when he was younger.

ali bey sent a men to the defenders offering to call off the siege if konstaninos and panagiotaros each gave him one of their children. the maniots refused and the ottomans began the siege. the ottomans had trouble bombarding the pyrgoi because they were well built and had been strengthed before the ottomans arrived. they also had trouble because the maniot were shielded from the artilery while the ottomans were exposed to the maniot fire.

the siege had dragged on for ten days and the situation was becoming grave for the defenders. during the night of the tenth day, panagiotaros, his father and kolokotronis met to discuss the situation. they only had ammuniation to last for two days and after that ran out the defence was doomed. they came to the conclusion that on the twelfth night at midnight when the moon didn't shine they would sneak out and make for the forests around the town with a group of men covering the rear and the vanguard while the women and the children were in the middle. panagiotaros' father however said that he would stay behind and with his wife and one attendant would place his remaining gunpowder on the top floor and wait until the pyrgo was full of turko-albanians then he would detonate the gunpowder and kill as many enemies as possible.

on the twelfeth night they broke out from the pyrgoi and tried to make it to the forests. the ottomans heard the movements and they attacked the fleeing maniots. the men tried to hold off the ottomans while the women and the children escaped. kolokotronis fell fighting seven ottomans with his sword and pistol in hand. his head was cut off and put on a spear. his wife with his young son theodoros kolokotronis, the future hero of the greek war of independence escaped. panagiotaros died while protecting his family from the ottomans. only 100 people made it to safety. the elder venetsakis was betrayed by his attendant and had both his feet cut off along with one of his hands. the ottomans then hung him from the mast of one of their ships.

aftermath.

the victorious ottomans then were routed by the combined maniot forces under the command of zanet and \c9xarchos grigorakis. \c9xarchos was treachorously captured and hung. in retaliation the maniot sacked the ottoman castle of passavas. panagiotaros' children were captured and were given an ottoman education and later on became officers in the ottoman army. all of kolokotronis' children except for theodoros were captured but they were ransomed later on. panagiotaros' and kolokotronis' heads were sent to the sultan. 

notes.


sources.

        .           .                                         (1453-1944).  sbn 960-87030-1-8




</doc>
<doc id="264015" title="electro (comics)" nonfiltered="361" processed="354" dbindex="364">
electro is the name of several fictional comic book characters in the marvel comics universe, including two from marvel's predecessors, timely comics and atlas comics.

the most prominent electro is maxwell dillon,  a supervillain and an enemy of spider-man. (electro should not be confused with marvel's similarly named, unrelated character, elektra). he was created by stan lee and steve ditko in the amazing spider-man #9 (feb. 1964).

electro (maxwell dillon).

fictional character biography.
maxwell dillon was born to jonathan and anita dillon in endicott, new york. jonathan was an accountant, though he had trouble keeping a job. because of this, max and his family moved frequently when max was young and he found it difficult to make friends. his hot-headed father abandoned his family when max was eight years old. anita subsequently became overprotective of max, leading to his single greatest flaw as a super-villain: his inferiority complex. years later, max told his mother he wished to become an electrical engineer. anita, not wanting him to be angry if he failed, convinced him he was not intelligent enough, and max reluctantly took a job as a lineman for an electric company. 

while he was repairing a power line, a freak lightning accident resulted in a mutagenic change in his nervous system, transforming dillon into a living electrical capacitor. taking the name electro, he turned to a life of crime, his first victim being j. jonah jameson. electro broke into the daily bugle building and stole from jameson's safe right in front of him. jameson accused spider-man of being an alternate identity of electro, prompting spider-man to prove the publisher wrong. during his confrontation with electro, spider-man was nearly killed when he touched the electrically charged supervillain. spider-man eventually used a fire hose to short-circuit electro.

electro has fought spider-man countless times, either on his own or as part of a group such as the sinister six. he has also fought such other heroes as daredevil, fantastic four and the new avengers. despite his immense power, he has almost always been defeated, usually as a result of his foes outsmarting him or taking advantage of his weakness to water while charged. 

as a result of his frequent and often embarrassing defeats, electro tried to take over new york city's power supply in an attempt at glory and respect. spider-man thwarted this plan, however, and convinced electro to quit his criminal career. when the insane spider-man clone kaine started killing enemies of spider-man, electro began to fear for his life and temporarily joined mysterio's sinister seven, which had been formed to combat kaine. this group was quickly disbanded, and following kaine's subsequent disappearance, electro returned to retirement.

this changed when the rose agreed to fund an experimental technique that would amplify electro's abilities, in exchange for electro's services as an enforcer. seeing this as a chance to rise above the string of failures that had made up so much of his life, electro underwent the procedure. after paying off his debt to the rose by defeating several members of the true believers (an offshoot of the famous ninja sect the hand), a group of ninja assassins who had been interfering in the rose's operations, electro attempted to demonstrate his newly amplified powers to the world, once again attempting to take control of new york city's power supply. wearing an insulated suit, spider-man stopped him. electro, in an effort to make a final grand gesture, electro threw himself into the hudson river while his body was highly charged, seemingly killing himself in an explosion.


somehow surviving, electro resurfaced later as part of the re-formed sinister six. his powers had seemingly reverted to their pre-amplification level, and he wore a new blue-and-white costume. when venom betrayed his fellow sinister six members, attempting to kill them one by one, he attacked electro and left him for dead. once again, electro survived, and when he next appeared had returned to his yellow-and green-costume.

in the mid-2000s, electro was working with the vulture (as well as questioning his own sexuality  ) when they were attacked by spider-man, who thought they had kidnapped his aunt may. electro managed to bring spider-man to the edge of defeat, using his powers in more intelligent ways and blowing up a large number of cars, including some with children in them. after a devastating battle, spider-man defeated him by fighting him to a gas refinery. the badly wounded electro recovered fairly quickly, and shortly afterwards joined the sinister twelve, assembled by the green goblin, though he was defeated. later, separately, he was hired by brainchild to free karl lykos (also known as sauron) from the raft, a maximum-security prison for supervillains. after causing a riot, electro tried to run away with his waitress girlfriend, but was captured by the new avengers.


powers and abilities.
electro can generate massive quantities of electricity, theoretically up to approximately ten million volts. when his body is charged to such levels, he becomes superhumanly strong and fast. he can also glide over power lines by using the electricity contained therein for propulsion, and has on occasion been shown to actually ride on lightning bolts. during a stint in prison, doctor octopus gave him the ideas of ionizing metals and sparking the petroleum in the fuel tank of a vehicle as a way to generate explosions.

he is extremely powerful but not particularly intelligent, and like the similarly strong but not smart rhino is usually outwitted by his foes.  in new avengers, he was shown to fly, and manipulate large amounts of electricity and machinery, when he freed all the prisoners at rikers. 

an experimental procedure heightened his powers, allowing electro to store and absorb a seemingly limitless amount of electricity. he also seemed to gain the power over magnetism to a certain degree, allowing him to manipulate magnetic fields and move objects in a manner similar to that of magneto, and could overcome his old weakness to water by using the electromagnetic fields around him to vaporize water before it could touch him. he made spider-man beg by stimulating the bioelectric currents in his brain, and was able to defeat nate grey by manipulating them in nate's brain to turn his own psionic powers against him.

other versions.
ultimate electro.
in the ultimate marvel universe, electro has been reimagined with powers as a product of bioengineering. instead of his mainstream appearance, he is bald, wears a black leather outfit, and has some grotesque burn scars.

as a result of experimentation by justin hammer, max dillon is given the power to control and create electricity. he is sold by hammer to the kingpin in exchange for some contracts for a building that hammer wanted to create in issue #17.

spider-man fights both electro and the enforcers when raiding the kingpin's building for evidence to put the kingpin away. electro nearly kills spider-man, but spider-man manages to burst open a water pipe, shocking the villain and putting him into a coma.  when electro awakes, he tries to escape federal custody and is apprehended by the ultimates, who place him in s.h.i.e.l.d. custody along with sandman, kraven the hunter, doctor octopus and the green goblin.  in the limited series ultimate six these five villains manage to escape and form the titular team, kidnapping spider-man and forcing him to join them.  after a lengthy battle with the ultimates on the white house lawn, electro is defeated by thor.

mc2.
in the mc2 alternate future, electro has a daughter, allison dillon who is emotionally delicate because she never had her father in her life and becomes the supervillainess aftershock. she inherited her father's powers, but because electro and allison's electrical auras were slightly different, the slightest touch would cause them intense pain. when max dillon found out that his daughter was following in his footsteps, he asked spider-man for help. spider-man, spider-girl and the avengers helped subdue aftershock and max shows up. the two overcome their pain and max promises to be a better father. 5, 6

hyper-electro.
hyper-electro is the combination of electro with the bio-nexus device (bnd) resulting in a being of pure energy, called hyper-electro. capable of launching electrical bolts and even calling down lightning strikes, hyper-electro was only defeated when spider-man tricked him into burning out the bnd. after spider-man defeated him, thor was given credit for his defeat, even though he probably didn't know what happened.  since these events only took place in the spider-man 2: enter electro video game, they are not necessarily canon.

electro (timely comics).

the first comics character of this name was the robot hero electro, a backup-feature star in marvel mystery comics, flagship title of marvel's golden age predecessor, timely comics. created by writer-artist steve dahlman, he appeared in marvel mystery #4 19 (feb. 1940   may 1941). the character's origin story described his invention by professor philo zog, one of a group of twelve known as the secret operatives.

electro (atlas comics).
marvel's next electro was a communist supervillain created during the unsuccessful attempt by marvel's 1950s predecessor, atlas comics, to revive superheroes in that decade. this electro, a soviet citizen named ivan kronov, appeared on the cover and in the six-page story "his touch is death" in captain america #78 (sept. 1954), penciled and inked by john romita sr. and almost certainly if unconfirmably written by the more famous electro's co-creator, stan lee. many years later, this electro reappeared in what if? vol. 1, #9 (june 1978), "what if the avengers had been formed during the 1950s?"; and, in flashback, in captain america annual #13 (1994).

appearances in other media.
television.
 electro made an appearance in the 1960's spider-man animated series. ;

 in the 1990s , electro made an appearance in season five. here he was rheinholt kragov, instead of max dillon.  during the course of the episode arc in which he appears, it is revealed that this version of electro is the red skull's son. in this portrayal, electro is much more powerful than his comic book counterpart (or at least capable of using his powers more intelligently), as he is seen taking over the circuitry of vast machines and essentially brings all of s.h.i.e.l.d. to its knees. he is only defeated when spider-man tricks him into connecting himself to a machine made to generate a void in the space-time continuum, which traps him inside a time loop. he was played by philip proctor.

 an eel who is counter-earth's version of electro appeared in the spider-man unlimited animated series. he appeared in the eighth episode of the series titled "ill met by moonlight".


in mtv's  in 2003, max dillon was a nerdy college friend of peter parker. bullied by members of a fraternity he was pledging, dillon, after being humiliated at their party, goes out into the rain and is struck by lightning. he becomes electro and plans revenge on the primary bully, doug reisman. he kills doug by electrocuting him and is later defeated by spider-man in battle when the hero used grounded power cables, sucking him into the city's electrical system. at this point, max dillon was presumed dead. however, he returns several episodes later, attempting to make sally, a girl with whom he became infatuated at the party, go through a similar transformation. spider-man defeats him again, this time by trapping electro in an electric generator box provided by harry osborn's oscorp and tossing it into the river, effectively destroying electro permanently.

video games.
 electro is a boss in  for the arcade.

 although he does not appear in the first two game boy spider-man games, electro is present in the amazing spider-man 3: invasion of the spider-slayers.

 he is also a boss in spider-man: return of the sinister six, as well as the sega genesis game the amazing spider-man vs. the kingpin. he also appeared in the sega cd version of the latter, released two years later. he appears as the boss of a level set in a power station.

 electro is the main antagonist on spider-man 2: enter electro. he steals a machine known as the bio-nexus device and becomes hyper-electro, but is defeated when spider-man tricks him into overloading himself and sending him to jail with sandman, shocker and hammerhead. ;

 electro appears as a boss in the video game ultimate spider-man. electro is hired by bolivar trask to gauge venom's power. electro leads venom on a chase throughout manhattan when spider-man appears. electro knocks spider-man out and tries to kill him, but venom attacks electro, trying to take electro's opportunity to kill the fallen hero. vemon defeats electro by desroying the neon signs that electro is feeding off of. when s.h.i.e.l.d. arrives venom flees, and electro is once again brought into s.h.i.e.l.d. custody.

references.
a profile of ivan kronov, the 1950s electro;
the grand comic book database;
profile at spiderfan.org;

















</doc>
<doc id="3148647" title="mathieu demy" nonfiltered="362" processed="355" dbindex="365">
mathieu demy is a french actor, born october 15, 1972 in paris.  he is the son of agn\e8s varda and jacques demy.

 filmography .
1993 : \c0 la belle \e9toile with julie gayet, chiara mastroianni;
1997 : jeanne et le gar\e7on formidable with virginie ledoyen;
1999 : banqueroute with antoine chappey;
2000 : la chambre obscure with caroline ducey, melvil poupaud;
2001 : dieu est grand, je suis toute petite with audrey tautou;
2002 : aram by robert kechichian with simon abkarian, lubna azabal;
2003 : nos enfants ch\e9ris by beno\eet cohen.
2005 : un fil \e0 la patte by michel deville with emmanuelle b\e9art, charles berling;
2006 : quelques jours en septembre by santiago amigorena;
external links.
;









</doc>
<doc id="2607961" title="john macpherson" nonfiltered="363" processed="356" dbindex="366">
john macpherson can refer to:

john alexander macpherson (1833-1894), australian politician;
john macpherson (governor of india) (1745-1821), scottish administrator in india.
john mcpherson, footballer;



</doc>
<doc id="166520" title="'night, mother" nonfiltered="365" processed="357" dbindex="368">
for the film based on the play, see 'night, mother (film).;
'night, mother is a 1983 play by marsha norman about a daughter, jessie, and her mother, thelma (referred to as "mama" in the play).  the play opens with jessie calmly telling mama that by morning she'll be dead, as she plans to commit suicide that very evening (she makes this revelation all while nonchalantly organizing household items and preparing to do her mother's nails).  the subsequent dialogue between jessie and mama slowly reveals her reasons for her decision and her life with mama and how thoroughly she has planned her own death, culminating in a disturbing yet unavoidable climax.

winner of the 1983 pulitzer prize for drama, the original production at the american repertory theater in cambridge, massachusetts, starred kathy bates as jessie and anne pitoniak as mama. this production eventually made its way to broadway, where it played at the john golden theatre with the same cast. it received 4 tony award nominations: best play, best actress in a play (both bates and pitoniak) and best director (tom moore).

the 1986 film version of the same name starred sissy spacek and anne bancroft as daughter and mother, respectively. marsha norman adapted her own play and wrote the screenplay. tom moore, who directed the play on broadway, also directed the film. the film added more characters, whereas the play featured only two performers.  the film received lukewarm reviews, though bancroft received a golden globe nomination for best actress (drama) in a film.

in 2004, a broadway revival starred edie falco and brenda blethyn.

 

external links.
internet broadway database entry for original 1983 production;
ibdb entry for 2005 revival;
play concordance;






</doc>
<doc id="3281192" title="piledriver (band)" nonfiltered="366" processed="358" dbindex="369">
this article is about a former band, for other uses see pile driver (disambiguation);
piledriver was a canadian power/thrash metal band, founded in 1985 by gord kirchin. they were known for an over-the-top image and flamboyant song titles/lyrics ("sex with satan", "alien rape", "sodomize the dead", "witch hunt", "human sacrifice", etc). probably their best known song was the title track of their debut album metal inquisition, which featured in the chorus the sound of a falling guillotine blade chopping someone's head off. the album was followed by stay ugly a year later.

the band soon disappeared. years later, pile driver himself, stage name of gord kirchin, revealed that the band and albums were just a studio project, and that the band, never really existed at all, with all the names made up, as was virtually everything else about the band. kirchin later formed his own band, dogs with jobs, and sporadically had been working on solo material. in 2005, the band was reformed as the exalted piledriver, a live band. 

metal inquisition/stay ugly


track list:
1  metal inquisition      
       2  sex with satan      
       3  sodomize the dead      
       4  witch hunt      
       5  pile driver      
       6  human sacrifice      
       7  alien rape      
       8  the incubus      
       9  metal death racer      
       10  the fire god      
       11  chaos      
       12  the warning      
       13  the lord of abominations      
       14  flowers of evil      
       15  the executioner

external links.
official website (former website of gord kirchin);




</doc>
<doc id="513321" title="discectomy" nonfiltered="367" processed="359" dbindex="370">
a discectomy is a surgical procedure in which an extravasated segment of the intervertebral disc, which is causing pain by stressing the spinal cord or radiating nerves, is dissected.  a laminectomy is often involved to permit access to the intervertebral disc.

see also.
back pain;
hernia;
anterior cervical discectomy and fusion;






</doc>
<doc id="225725" title="1750 in literature" nonfiltered="368" processed="360" dbindex="371">
see also: 1749 in literature, other events of 1750, 1751 in literature, list of years in literature.

events.
 tobias smollett travels in france, collecting material for peregrine pickle.
 weekly meetings for contributors to the encyclop\e9die begin, at the salon of baron d'holbach.
 the rambler is founded by edward cave; it lasts for 208 issues, and is mostly written by samuel johnson.
 jean-jacques rousseau wins the prize of the academy of dijon for his discourse on the arts and sciences.

new books.
john cleland - fanny hill ;

new drama.
carlo goldoni - la bottega di caffe  ;
voltaire - oreste  ;

non-fiction.
charlotte ramsay lennox - the life of harriot stuart ;

births.
 january 7 - robert anderson (died 1803);
 september 5 - robert fergusson (died 1774);

deaths.
february 8 - aaron hill, dramatist (born 1685);
june 15 - marguerite de launay, baronne staal, french writer (born 1684);



</doc>
<doc id="1977743" title="viapoint" nonfiltered="369" processed="361" dbindex="372">
viapoint is an information organizer for windows desktops. it lets you organize email, files, web content, and rss feeds through one simple interface that looks a lot like microsoft windows explorer (not internet explorer). unlike the windows explorer, where every item can only exist in one place, viapoint lets you put information in more than one folder. you can create virtual folders to organize projects and other work without the restrictions of the physical location of your information.

the email address you give to them may be passed to the lowest grade of spammers.

see also.
omea

external links.
viapoint;




</doc>
<doc id="7177024" title="banovi?" nonfiltered="370" processed="362" dbindex="373">
banovi  or banovic is a surname, and may refer to:

 ivica banovi ;
 predrag banovi ;
 petra banovi ;




</doc>
<doc id="1461466" title="clinton avenue school" nonfiltered="371" processed="363" dbindex="374">
clinton avenue school is a bilingual (american english and spanish) school located at 293 clinton avenue in the fair haven neighborhood of new haven, ct, usa.  it was built in 1911 and underwent extensive renovations beginning in 2004.  the original design was similar to the nearby truman school, both beaux arts style buildings.

renovations.
the school taught kindergarten through fourth grade with an enrollment of 410 students until its temporary closure.  it size was approximately 58,000 square feet (5,400 m ).  renovations by boroson falconer architects & engineers was completed in 2005, enlarging the school by over 36,000 square feet (3,300 m ), with a new total area of 94,000 square feet (8,700 m ).  the enrollment increased to 650, supporting pre-k through eighth grade.  the cost of renovations was $25,106,000 usd.  rededication took place on october 23, 2005.

demographics.
in 2004 the enrollment was 67% hispanic, 32% african american, and 1% white, with under 1% asian.

principals.
 john leary (?-1983);
 richard whitney (1983-1986);
 patricia derenzo (1986-2004);
 carmen ana rodriguez-robles (2005-present);

bibliography.
digital.
 ctschools.net - clinton avenue school;
 greatschools.net;
 new haven school construction - clinton avenue school;



</doc>
<doc id="1762415" title="robin lakoff" nonfiltered="372" processed="364" dbindex="375">
robin tolmach lakoff is a feminist and professor of linguistics at the university of california, berkeley. her most famous work, language and woman's place (1975), introduced to the field of sociolinguistics many ideas about women's language that are now commonplace, such as women's greater use of tag questions as compared to men's speech.  further research on tag questions has cast some doubt on this proposition though.

lakoff's article "women's language" and her book language and woman's place have become the basis for much research on the subject of women's language. in the 1975 article she published 10 basic assumptions about what she felt constituted a special women's language. much of what lakoff proposed agreed with otto jespersen's theories.

external links.
uc berkeley faculty page;
gender and tags;
language log;










</doc>
<doc id="9124364" title="cantuzumab mertansine" nonfiltered="373" processed="365" dbindex="376">

cantuzumab mertansine is a humanized monoclonal antibody and which it's used to treat cancers. it has a chelator, mertansine.







</doc>
<doc id="6050312" title="buenos aires international festival of independent cinema" nonfiltered="374" processed="366" dbindex="377">

the buenos aires festival internacional de cine independiente (bafici, english: buenos aires international independent film festival) is an international festival of independent films organized each year in the month of april, in the city of buenos aires, argentina. 

the festival is managed by the ministerio de cultura del gobierno de la ciudad de buenos aires, it is not officially affiliated with fiapf, but it has become well known internationally.

history.
the festival had its first edition in april of 1999 and it was organized by the secretaria de cultura de la ciudad de buenos aires. the festival used important movie theatres, some of them included hoyts and other more traditional studios, usually non-commercial theatres.

in the first year the festival had 146 guests, among them francis ford coppola, todd haynes, paul morrissey and others.  the festival screened more than 150 national and international films. it had approximately 120,000 spectators.

the following year the event featured more films and other activities were added such as conferences and workshops. with a similar amount of spectators and guests, the festival was permanently added into the buenos aires list of cultural events.

awards.
the festival has an international group and national group of judges. currently some of the award categories are best film, best script, best director, best actor, best actress and special mentions, aand others.

the public assisting the event also vote.  the film that gets the most votes receives the peoples choice award.

since the third festival, there have been awards given to short subject films, which include best short subject film and best director.

list of winners.


external links.
 official website.














</doc>
<doc id="1114145" title="world intellectual wealth organisation" nonfiltered="375" processed="367" dbindex="378">
a world intellectual wealth organisation (wiwo) has been proposed as an alternative to the world intellectual property organization. it would be dedicated to the research and promotion of novel and imaginative ways to encourage the production and dissemination of knowledge in ways that enrich everyone.

granting limited monopolies and limited control over some kinds of knowledge (e.g. with patents, copyrights, etc.) may be part of this new organization's tool-set, but not the only one, and maybe not even the most important one.

the proposal was published in october 2004. it is inspired by the geneva declaration on the future of the world intellectual property organization and came from the free software foundation in europe, which is dedicated to the enhancement of open content, free software and other forms of libre copyright approaches by the establishment of a new worldwide organization or through a refreshed wipo.

external links.
free software foundation wiwo proposal;
world intellectual property organization;



</doc>
<doc id="4751945" title="seventh street improvement arches" nonfiltered="376" processed="368" dbindex="379">

the seventh street improvement arches are a double-arched masonry highway bridge that formerly spanned the st. paul and duluth railroad tracks in st. paul, minnesota.  the seventh street improvement arches are historically significant for its rarity and the technically demanding nature of its skewed, helicoidal spiral, stone-arch design.  the bridge is one of the few of its type in the united states, and is the only known bridge of its type in minnesota.  it was built in 1883-1884 by michael o brien and mcarthur brothers of chicago and was designed by william a. truesdell.  the bridge was listed on the national register of historic places in 1989 and on the american society of civil engineers historic civil engineering landmarks in 2000.

the bridge was proposed in 1883 as part of a group of improvements along seventh street, linking downtown st. paul with the dayton's bluff neighborhood on the east.  other parts of this project included a 300-foot iron bridge crossing the northern pacific railway, a long embankment, and a stone-arch sewer for the crossing of phalen creek.  these improvements were necessary because the hill on seventh street needed to be rebuilt to lessen its steepness, so streetcars could travel between downtown and the dayton's bluff neighborhood.  the seventh street improvement arches bridge posed a special engineering challenge because the street crossed the st. paul and duluth tracks at a 63-degree angle.  the bridge also had to carry sewer and water pipes and match the rest of the profile of the regraded hill, making a substantial amount of fill necessary.  this precluded the construction of a bridge with ribbed arches, because this method could not support all the weight of the fill.  truesdell also considered using the classical french method of skewed arch construction, but the amount of skilled stonecutting necessary would have made the cost prohibitive.  he turned to the helicoidal or spiral method, introduced by english mathematician peter nicholson in 1828.  this method was mathematically rigorous, but since truesdell studied mathematics as a hobby, he decided to accept the challenge.  the voussoir stones were cut with curved surfaces to form a series of parallel spiral courses.  the initial calculation of the curves was difficult, but once the calculation was performed, all of the voussoirs (except for the ring stones) could be cut from the same pattern.  this required the stonecutters to work with more precision than they were used to, but a skilled foreman helped to organize the work.  the abutments, piers, and wing walls were built with a variety of gray limestone locally quarried in st. paul, while the voussoirs, ring stones, coping and spandrel walls were built with a buff-colored limestone quarried in kasota, minnesota.

construction on the bridge began in september 1883, with michael o'brien of st. paul doing general contracting for excavation, foundation, and abutments.  mcarthur brothers of chicago was responsible for the final construction of the bridge, which opened for traffic on december 18, 1884.  truesdell's engineering colleagues recognized his achievements, even if the general public soon forgot the significance of the bridge.  the association of engineering societies journal characterized the bridge as "the most important piece of masonry in the city" upon his death in 1909.

the railroad tracks have since been removed, but the bridge still stands.  today, the bruce vento regional trail follows the former railroad line under the bridge.

pictures.




references.
 
 







</doc>
<doc id="8302763" title="shane cultra" nonfiltered="377" processed="369" dbindex="380">
shane cultra is a republican member of the illinois house of representatives representing the 105th district where he has served since 2003. cultra had previously served on the iroquois county board from 1989 to 2003.

t. shane cultra is part owner of country arbors nursery  and a 5th generation nurseryman living in urbana, illinois.  t. shane cultra is the nephew of shane cultra and son of p. terrence cultra.  

external link.
illinois house website's page for shane cultra;





</doc>
<doc id="926306" title="ted berry" nonfiltered="378" processed="370" dbindex="381">
theodore m. berry (november 5, 1905 - october 15, 2000), an american politician of the charter party of cincinnati, ohio, was the first african american mayor of cincinnati, ohio.












</doc>
<doc id="6636272" title="immersion v. sony" nonfiltered="379" processed="371" dbindex="382">
in 2002, sony and microsoft were sued by immersion corporation for patent infringement for the use of vibration functions in their gaming controllers.  the patent numbers were  and .  both patents were continuation applications of a patent application originally filed in november of 1995. 

while microsoft settled out of court, sony continued to defend the case. a jury ruled against sony, and on march 8, 2006 judge claudia wilken of the united states district court for the northern district of california denied sony's motion for relief from the judgment pursuant to rule 60(b) of the federal rules of civil procedure.  sony will be required to pay $90 million in royalties to immersion and suspend the sale of the controllers, including all playstation and playstation 2 console packages containing immersion's patented technology. sony has appealed the district court's decision to the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit and has been able to sell its products while the appeal is pending.  the order to halt sales of the infringing controllers has been stayed pending the outcome of the appeal.

nonetheless, at e3 2006, sony announced that vibration functionality will be removed from the playstation 3 controller, reasoning that the vibration would interfere with the motion-sensing feature of the controller. it has been speculated that the removal of vibration is related to the lawsuit, and immersion president victor viegas has been dismissive of sony's stated rationale.

references.

 bringardner, john. "patents take to the big screen". law technology news. november 29, 2004.

 external links .
company website;






</doc>
<doc id="1956292" title="paharganj" nonfiltered="380" processed="372" dbindex="383">

paharganj (hindi:         , urdu:         , punjabi:        , literally 'hilly neighbourhood') is a section of delhi, located just west of the new delhi railway station. it is known for its concentration of affordable hotels, restaurants, and a wide variety of shops catering to both domestic travellers and foreign tourists, especially those travelling on a relatively low budget.




</doc>
<doc id="7166283" title="evan x hyde" nonfiltered="381" processed="373" dbindex="384">
evan anthony hyde (better known as evan x hyde) (born april 30, 1947 in belize city, belize) is a writer and journalist. he publishes and writes for the nation's largest newspaper, the amandala, as well as oversee its subsidiaries, krem radio (formed in 1989) and krem television (formed in 2004). between 1969 and 1974 he headed the united black association for development (ubad) which demanded better conditions for belize's black people and emphasized unity. he earned a b.a. in english from dartmouth college.

 early life and education .
hyde was born to a large family led by father charles b. hyde, a public servant. he attended the holy redeemer boys' school, prior to its amalgamation with a girls' school of the same name, and the all-male st. john's college high school in belize city. evan particularly excelled at creative writing. he was among the first students to attend the sjc junior college in 1964 and 1965, before being granted a scholarship by the u.s. embassy to study at dartmouth in hanover, new hampshire. evan enrolled in september 1966 and graduated in june 1968 among the top students in his class. he had settled on a writing career, but events which were to unfold over the next five years greatly altered that outlook.

 ubad and entry into politics .
upon hyde's return to belize in 1968 the nation he had left behind two years prior was in turmoil due to the latest rejected proposal to end the guatemalan claim. hyde took a job teaching at belize technical college and in the meantime attempted to link up with other young intellectuals to try to influence the course of belizean development. hyde had been exposed to the teachings of the early black power movement in the united states, particularly stokely carmichael and malcolm x (who had recently been assassinated).

these early seeds bore fruit when on january 1, 1969, hyde participated in a protest at a local cinema against the vietnam war film "the green berets", starring john wayne. the group he was a part of, the ad hoc committee for the truth about vietnam, was the seed for the later united black association for development and the people's action committee chaired by assad shoman.

hyde formed ubad in february and took over its presidency in march after leader lionel clarke faced charges of inappropriate conduct. for a further analysis of hyde in ubad, see united black association for development.

hyde left technical to devote his time to the movement, in addition to courting audrey scott, whom he would later marry. with her he had three children: tiffara, jacinta (now amandala business manager) and evan "mose" hyde (dj and manager of krem television). they later separated and hyde has his fourth child, cordel, with another woman, claudette coleman.

in pursuit of his writing career, hyde published knocking our own ting, a satirical analysis of the battle of st. george's caye, in 1969; north amerikkkan blues in 1971, profiling his time at dartmouth, and the crowd called ubad in 1972, a complete history of the organization to that point. he also briefly taught at wesley college, a high school in belize city.

hyde also participated in politics. he was one of the nine candidates running in coalition with the national independence party in 1971 city council elections, in which the coalition lost badly. hyde also failed in bids for the collet division in 1974 and another city council run in 1977, with the pup.

 post-ubad .
after the dissolution of ubad in 1974, hyde turned full-time to journalism, while publishing two other works: feelings in 1975, consisting mainly of fiction pieces; and poems of passion, patriotism and protest, a poetry collaboration with rowland parks and richard "dickie" bradley in 1981. but increasingly hyde found himself devoted to the amandala as editor and then publisher. his "from the publisher" columns found a wide audience in discussion of current topics in belize and african and mayan history. in 1989, hyde presided over the creation of krem radio and hosted one of its original shows, the kremandala show, on monday nights (it is now on tuesdays) at 7:30. hyde's three earliest works returned to print along with other non-fiction pieces and past editorials of the amandala to 1991 in "x-communication", published by the angelus press in 1994. a few of hyde's works (fiction this time) were reproduced in editions of the belizean writers series later in the decade.

hyde today is chair of the ubad educational foundation, successor to ubad and owner of the library of african and indian studies on partridge street. he is majority shareholder in the kremandala media empire and a great influence on its workers.


 publishing history .
fiction:
 feelings, 1975;
 poems of passion, patriotism and protest (with rowland parks and dickie bradley), 1981;
 snapshots of belize (story "a conscience for christmas"; belizean writers series);
 ping wing juk me (play "haad time"; belizean writers series);
 of poems (several poems; belizean writers series);
non-fiction:
 knocking our own ting (historical satire), 1969;
 north amerikkkan blues (autobiography), 1971;
 the crowd called ubad: story of a people's movement (history), 1972;


 references .
 hyde, evan x. x-communication. belize city, belize: angelus press, 1994.
 shoman, assad. 13 chapters of a history of belize (chapter 10, different drums). belize city, belize: angelus press, 1995.











</doc>
<doc id="6507845" title="before the poison" nonfiltered="382" processed="374" dbindex="385">

before the poison is the twentieth studio album by marianne faithfull, recorded in 2003 and released in 2005. 

 overview .
the album has a dark and fatalistic mood, which faithfull attributes partially to the post-9/11 world. 

faithfull enlisted musicians pj harvey and nick cave, as well as damon albarn and producer jon brion, with whom she had collaborated on her previous release, kissin' time. 
 besides producing and performing on five tracks, harvey gave her three songs ("the mystery of love", "my friends have" and "no child of mine" -- an excerpt of the last one appears on pj's latest album, uh huh her) and co-wrote another two with faithfull. ;
 cave co-produces with hal willner the three tracks on which he wrote the music over faithfull's lyrics ("crazy love", "there is a ghost" and "desperanto") and had his supporting band, the bad seeds, performing on all of them. ;
 albarn, who appears with blur in a song on faithfull's previous album, kissin' time, co-wrote "last song" with her. ;
 jon brion, also featured on kissin' time, shares with the singer the songwriting credits of "city of quartz", the last song of the album.

 trivia .
faithfull spoke in mojo magazine about the curious fact that two of the album's collaborators, pj harvey and nick cave, were not on speaking terms. (the two ended a personal relationship in the late 1990s and have not spoken since.) in a february 2005 interview to mojo, she said that "they didn t need to speak to each other. they were with me. one is one thing and one is the other and i am the connection. with polly i was in the studio for around 10 days and then later on i was in the studio for about five days with nick and the bad seeds. nick didn t even hear the polly stuff - i gave it to him but i don t think he listened. the only area that was difficult was that they didn t want to be seen in competition with each other."

 achievement on charts .
before the poison reached position #37 at billboard top independent albums in 2005.

track listing.
 'the mystery of love' (pj harvey)   3:53;
 'my friends have' (pj harvey)   2:48;
 'crazy love' (marianne faithfull/nick cave)   4:04;
 'last song' (damon albarn/marianne faithfull)   3:19;
 'no child of mine' (pj harvey)   6:15 ;
 'before the poison' (marianne faithfull/pj harvey)   4:10;
 'there is a ghost' (marianne faithfull/nick cave)   4:32;
 'in the factory' (marianne faithfull/pj harvey)   3:51;
 'desperanto' (marianne faithfull/nick cave)   4:22;
 'city of quartz' (marianne faithfull/jon brion)   4:04;

production credits.

tracks 1, 2, 5, 6 & 8:;
produced by pj harvey (june-july 2003);
recorded and mixed by head;
vocals and handclapping: marianne faithfull;
electric and acoustic guitars, bass, synth, backing vocals, piano, slide bass: pj harvey;
drums, piano, percussion, glockenspiel, handclapping: rob ellis;
synth bass, electric guitar, bass: adrian utley;

tracks 3, 7 & 9:;
produced by nick cave and hal willner (october 2003);
recorded and mixed by rik simpson;
vocals: marianne faithfull;
musicians: nick cave, warren ellis, martyn p. casey and jim sclavunos;

tracks 4 & 10:
produced by rob ellis and head (september 2003);
recorded and mixed by head;
assistant engineers: andrew rugg and rik simpson;
vocals: marianne faithfull;
drums, piano, percussion, vibraphone, sound effects, string arrangements: rob ellis;
acoustic guitar, bass, toy piano, sampling: adrian utley;
violin: catherine browning;
cello: andy nice;
piano: diana gutkind;

mastering: john dent;
photos: jean baptiste mondino;



</doc>
<doc id="6766369" title="andrew drummond" nonfiltered="383" processed="375" dbindex="386">
andrew drummond is the name of at least two well-known people:

 andrew drummond, scottish translator and novelist;
 andrew drummond, new zealand painter and sculptor;




</doc>
<doc id="940532" title="hpi savage" nonfiltered="384" processed="376" dbindex="387">
the hpi savage is a 1/8th scale radio controlled monster truck manufactured by hpi. 

the original version was the now-discontinued savage 21 which served as the basis for the vehicles that came after.  it featured a two-speed transmission, heavy-duty slipper clutch, four-wheel-drive, hpi .21ci\b3/3.4cm\b3 pull-start engine with rear exhaust and a hpi 27 mhz three-channel pistol grip radio.  a "reverse module," sold separately, mounts inside the transmission and utilizes the radio's non-proportional third channel and an additional servo to add the convenience and fun of reverse when the model is first brought to a complete stop. 

shortly after the savage 21 was released, the savage ss was released. it was an unassembled version of the savage 21  

the savage 21 was replaced by the updated savage 25.  this version added both a larger hpi .25in\b3/4.1 cm\b3 engine for additional power and torque as well as hpi's unique roto-start electric starter system.  the roto-start kept the weight-saving advantages of the pull start with the extra added convenience of electric starting via an external electric starter.  this starter, standard on most new hpi models, incorporates a gear-driven one-way bearing mounted on the engine in lieu of the pull starter.  the external starter is a motor-driven gearbox which spins a steel shaft and is powered by a standard 7.2v ni-cd battery pack.  a pinned ball joint similar to those found on "dogbone" axles mates with a socket on the rear of the engine.  an limited edition version of the savage 25 added a three-speed transmission along with updated wheels and tires.  these parts can easily be retrofitted to previous versions.  a mechanically identical variation of the savage 25 replaces that model's lexan pickup truck body with that of a kawasaki kfx700 all-terrain vehicle with articulated rider figure designed to move with the models's steering motions.

when the savage 25 was released, the savage 4.6 ss kit was updated to include the more powerful engine and better diffs and other upgrades

shortly before the new savage x came out the savage 25 le (limited editon) which was a ready built 4.6 ss and difrent coloured shock absorber springs it also included a commertive shell.

 
the current rtr version is the hpi savage x. it has a redesigned, more powerful version of the s-25 engine.

the current ss version has a .28 4.6cc engine that has 10% more displacement then the s-25 model.

external links.
savage-central forums, news & more;
more information about various savage models;
savage x;
savage 21;
savage 25;
savage ss;
savage 4.6 ss;
heavily modified brushless savage;



</doc>
<doc id="2734202" title="list of wwe european championship reigns by length" nonfiltered="385" processed="377" dbindex="388">
this is a list of wwe european champions by length of time.



 see also .
wwe european championship;
list of wwe european champions;



</doc>
<doc id="8824609" title="alec gray" nonfiltered="386" processed="378" dbindex="389">
alec j. m. gray was a british socialist.

a railway clerk, gray is believed to have been a member of the independent labour party before helping found the socialist party of great britain in june 1904.  gray was a writer of some note for the socialist standard until 1908, served on the executive committee (1904 1905, 1907 1911) and was the party s second treasurer (1905 1907).

references.

socialist party of great britain 1904 1913 membership register;








</doc>
<doc id="4302205" title="llynnau mymbyr" nonfiltered="387" processed="379" dbindex="390">

llynnau mymbyr are two lakes located in dyffryn mymbyr, a valley running from the village of capel curig to the pen-y-gwryd hotel in snowdonia,  north wales.  the a4086 runs along their northern banks.

strictly speaking this is one lake, originally called llyn mymbyr, with a maximum depth of 30 feet.  about 3/4 mile long in total, a delta has built up midway along the north shore, and this has to all purposes cut the lake in two - hence the plural name.

the river feeding the lakes is the nantygwryd (or nant-y-gwryd), which starts at llyn cwm-y-ffynnon, also marked on maps as the nant gwryd, which is a tributary of the afon llugwy.  these two join at capel curig. 

the lake was used for fly-fishing and sub-aqua courses in the 1960s and is still used today as a canoe training resource by plas y brenin and other local education authorities.

external links.
plas y brenin;











</doc>
<doc id="5310123" title="saint eutropius" nonfiltered="388" processed="380" dbindex="391">
eutropius of orange (b. marseilles, france) was bishop of orange, france after justus and during the 5th century, probably since 463. according to the tradition, eutropius was converted by his wife and became a deacon after her death. he became famous, among others for miracles attributed to him. he also corresponded with pope hilarius and was a friend of st. faustus of riez. between 436 and 475 he took part in the synod of arles. 

his diocese had been destroyed by the visigoths and he died as a martyr. his feast day is may 27. 









</doc>
<doc id="1630763" title="gloria chang" nonfiltered="389" processed="381" dbindex="392">
 
gloria chang (   ) is the former president of the hong kong university students' union, who was the main contributor to the resignation of the former vice chancellor of the university of hong kong prof cheng yiu chung. she is currently working at greenpeace hong kong.

her articles have been published in local newspaper like am730 and metronews from time to time.








</doc>
<doc id="6873458" title="jacques suzanne" nonfiltered="390" processed="382" dbindex="393">

 

jacques suzanne (1880-1967)was a french painter, artist and explorer. 

biography.
early life.
he was born albert jacques suzanne april 17, 1880 in trouville-sur-mer, normandy, france

training.
jacques suzanne trained in fine arts at the le_havre art school.

he married juliette isabelle emma duchemin on december 5, 1903.

move to us.
he and his wife migrated to the united states arriving through ellis island see   ellis island on the hudson ship and arrived on the 21st october 1905

acting career.
he appeared in several films including:-
out of snows (1916) and the spell of the yukon (1920) 

he claims to have attempted to reach the north pole but gave when up when robert peary made it in 1909.

he later moved to lake placid, new york, usa where he bred husky dogs for film and tourism purposes.  he died august 1, 1967 in lake placid, new york, usa.










</doc>
<doc id="274950" title="montezuma castle national monument" nonfiltered="391" processed="383" dbindex="394">


montezuma castle national monument, located near camp verde, arizona in the western united states, features well-preserved cliff dwellings. they were built and used by the sinagua indians around 1400 ad. when european americans discovered them in the 1850s, they reported native traditions that they had been built by a divine hero named montezuma   whose name may have been connected with the well-known historical aztec emperor of mexico, moctezuma ii, and accounts in spanish as early as 1694 reference them as the "casas de montezuma". some of these accounts have led to a mistaken belief that the spanish or americans themselves had named them after the emperor.

the five-story stone and mortar dwellings contain 20 rooms and once housed about 50 people. a natural overhang shades the rooms and shelters them from rain. another part of the cliff wall bears the marks of an even larger dwelling, which has not survived.

the dwellings and the surrounding area were declared a u.s. national monument on december 8, 1906.  the national monument was listed on the national register of historic places on october 15, 1966.


this is an easy monument to visit, a short distance off interstate 17, exit 287. there is a paved trail of 1/4 mile from the visitor center along the base of the cliff containing the ruins. access to the ruins themselves is not allowed.

montezuma well is a separate part of the monument, located 11 miles northeast, near rimrock, arizona.  the well is a natural limestone sinkhole through which some 1,400,000 gallons of water flow each day.  the water is highly carbonated and contains high levels of arsenic. montezuma well's outflow has been used for irrigation since the 8th century. part of a prehistoric canal is preserved at the picnic ground, and portions of the original hohokam canal are still in use today.

several hopi clans trace their roots to immigrants from the montezuma castle/beaver creek area. clan members periodically return to their former homes for religious ceremonies.


external links.
official nps website: montezuma castle national monument;
montezuma castle national monument centennial: 1906-2006;

a history of montezuma well;













</doc>
<doc id="4613335" title="sam hollis" nonfiltered="392" processed="384" dbindex="395">


sam hollis (c. 1866   april 17, 1942) was an english football manager, most notable for being the very first manager of arsenal.

hollis was appointed manager (or secretary-manager, as the post was known then) of woolwich arsenal (as they were known at the time) in 1894; before that team affairs had been managed by a committee of players and club members; one club official in particular, bill parr, often took a lead role managing the team, but he was not a dedicated manager, like hollis.

hollis had comparatively little football experience, having previously worked for the probate office and the post office. in the three years he was at the club, the team were solid but unspectacular, figuring around mid-table in the second division.

in april 1897 hollis was tempted away by newly-formed bristol city; he ended up spending three separate spells with the robins. his first ended in march 1899 when he left to become secretary-manager of bedminster. bedminster merged with bristol city in 1900 and hollis lost his job. however, in 1901 he returned to manage bristol city. during this second and most successive spell, city finished as southern league runners-up and were promoted to the football league.

he left in march 1905 and managed a hotel between 1905 and 1911, having previously ran a pub between 1899 and 1909. he took over as bristol city manager for the third time in january 1911 and oversaw the club's relegation from the first division back to the second. he left ashton gate in april 1913, and in july that year took over as manager of southern league newport county where he remained until 1917. after that he left football altogether, and died in nottingham in april 1942.
















</doc>
<doc id="2736115" title="duffys forest, new south wales" nonfiltered="393" processed="385" dbindex="396">
duffys forest is a suburb of sydney, in the state of new south wales, australia.

 external links .








</doc>
<doc id="4942028" title="mine clearance agencies" nonfiltered="394" processed="386" dbindex="397">
mine clearance agencies   also known as de-mining agencies, demining agencies. 

mine clearance is one of the five core components of mine action. in its broad sense, it includes surveys, mapping and minefield marking, as well as the actual clearance of mines from the ground. this range of activities is also sometimes referred to as "demining" or "de-mining". 

there are three types of mine clearance agencies:   military, commercial and humanitarian.  

 military mine clearance agencies .

military mine clearance agencies focus on the process undertaken by soldiers to clear a safe path so they can advance during conflict.   the military process of mine clearance only clears mines that block strategic pathways required in the advance or retreat of soldiers at war.   the military term used for mine clearance is breaching.   this process accepts that limited casualties may occur. 

 commercial mine clearance agencies .

commercial mine clearance agency are profit-making organisations. 

 international commercial .

 ronco .

since 1989, ronco has undertaken mine and unexploded ordnance (uxo) clearance operations in over 35 countries. ronco employs nearly 200 technical advisors skilled in the training and implementation of mine/uxo clearance and disposal, and improvised explosive ordnance disposal programs. ronco specializes in the following fields: manual demining, mine detection dogs, explosives detection dogs, explosive ordnance disposal, improvised explosive ordnance disposal, basic /advanced trauma life support, security management. 

 minetech international .

minetech international has over 15 years experience in mine detection and mine clearance. minetech has been clearing mines in assisting commercial companies, mainly from the oil and gas industries, to conduct business in countries plagued by mines and uxo. minetech offers the mine clearance service in the industry which involves taking detailed surveys, mapping minefield areas, mine detection, mine clearance and initiating mine risk education for the local population. minetech's capabilities extend to offshore operations for underwater mine detection and mine clearance using a team of expert divers and specialised equipment. minetech also owns and operates a security service. 
minetech has two headquarters based in zimbabwe and the united kingdom, minetech the company claims to have the ability to deploy mine clearance teams, mine detection dogs (mdd) and machines anywhere in the world within seven days.

 other commercial organisations .

dyncorp international
uxb


 humanitarian mine clearance agencies .

humanitarian mine clearance agencies are very different.   the aim to clear land so that civilians can return to their homes and their everyday routines without the threat of landmines and unexploded remnants of war (erw), which include unexploded ordnance and abandoned explosive ordnance. this means that all the mines and erw affecting the places where ordinary people live must be cleared, and their safety in areas that have been cleared must be guaranteed.  mines are cleared and the areas are thoroughly verified so that they can say without a doubt that the land is now safe, and people can use it without worrying about the weapons.   humanitarian mine clearance agencies are usually funded by international governments and private donations. the main governments that fund humanitarian mine clearance agencies are: usa, uk, japan and the netherlands. 


 international humanitarian mine clearance agencies .


 the halo trust   the hazardous areas life-support organisation .
the halo trust is a non-political, non-religious, non-governmental mine clearance organisation registered in britain and united states. it is the oldest and the biggest humanitarian demining ngo in the word with over 7,000 deminers, mine clearers in 10 countries. by early 2006 halo has cleared over 5,000,000 mines and uxos around the world. halo has a very simple mission statement  getting mines out of the ground, now  

demira deutsche minenraeumer e.v. - german mine clearer.
demira deutsche minenraeumer e.v. is an international, humanitarian, non-governmental organization (ngo) registered in germany. demira ngo was founded in 1996 in order to provide humanitarian mine clearance, eod (explosive ordnance disposal), emergency medical aid and disaster relief to people living in postwar countries and to victims of natural disasters and civil unrest.

mag - mines advisory group.
operates since 1989 and having worked on a variety of conflict-related projects in around 35 countries, mag is also co-laureate of the 1997 nobel peace prize, awarded for their work with the international campaign to ban landmines.

mgm -  people against landmines .

mgm was founded on january 16th 1996 in germany. the goal was to establish a humanitarian mine clearance organization which would offer its services to non-governmental organizations (ngos) dedicated to re-establishing the infrastructure of dangerous regions in post war scenarios. hendrik ehlers and hans georg kruessen founded mgm together with others in 1996. today they are managing directors and active managers of all demining operations at the same time. they have been working since 1992 in the field of humanitarian mine clearance and the destruction of dangerous ammunition in southern africa. they posses a wealth of practical experience through operations management, mined area survey, demining and the destruction of explosives (eod). 

intersos.

intersos is an independent no-profit humanitarian organization committed to assist the victims of natural disasters and armed conflicts. it was founded in 1992 with the active support of italian trade unions. intersos has a flexible operational structure, with the central headquarters in rome, in charge of planning and coordination of operations, and of field offices in the countries of operation. 

response international.

response international is a uk registered charity established in 1993 to support victims of violent conflict. over the last decade successful multi-sector programmes have been implemented in angola, bosnia, chechnya, kosovo, lebanon and pakistan. the objective of these programmes is to design and implement projects that offer immediate relief to victims of conflict and provide sustainable conditions to enable longer term development. response international's projects have included landmine clearance and landmine awareness and victim rehabilitation.

danchurchaid   dca .

danchurchaid (folkekirkens n\f8dhj\e6lp) is one of the major danish humanitarian non governmental organisations (ngo), working with churches and non-religious civil organisations to assist the poorest of the poor. in dignity.

mine awareness trust   mat.

the mines awareness trust (mat) is a charitable organisation that endeavours to save the lives and limbs of ordinary people from the unexploded debris of war. ben remfrey formed the trust in may 1999 as a direct response to the war in kosovo. 

swiss foundation for mine action (fsd).

fsd focuses on all mine clearance activities: mine and uxo (unexploded ordnance) survey, mapping, marking and clearance. in addition, the fsd assists with the destruction of stockpiles of landmines and conducts mine and uxo safety training for staff of international humanitarian organisations. fsd is mainly funded by the governments of japan, canada, australia and switzerland as well as international organisations such as wfp, undp, unops or osce. the fsd is the wfp's standby-partner for mine action. at the request of the wfp, fsd experts must be ready to intervene worldwide within 72 hours. the fsd has worked for wfp in afghanistan, ethiopia, iraq, laos, sudan and other countries.

 others.

mine dog detection   mdc

ddg   danish demining group

norwegian people s aid   npa

handicap international

 national .

cemac

anama

 see also .
 demining;
 improvised explosive device;
 cluster bomb;
 naval mine;

 external links .
 the international committee of the red cross on landmines;
 demira deutsche minenraeumer e.v. - german mine clearer;
 the international campaign to ban landmines;
 mgm demining - robots and other research;
 the halo trust - the biggest demining ngo;
 demining with africa`s sniffer rats (apopo);
 unicef's most heavily mined countries, 1995;
 swiss foundation for mine action (fsd);
 united nations mine action service (unmas);



</doc>
<doc id="6362660" title="bob casullo" nonfiltered="395" processed="387" dbindex="398">


bob casullo (born march 21, 1951) is a journeyman nfl coach for the tampa bay buccaneers, having started his nfl career in 2000 coaching special teams for the raiders.  though his career in the nfl started only a short time ago, he has distinguished himself as one of the leagues better speacial teams coaches.  his special teams unit helped the raiders to three consecutive afc west titles (2000 - 2002) including an appearance in super bowl xxxvii.  in 2000, his unit lead the whole of the nfl in net punting average.  in 2001, they lead the afc sending their punter to the pro bowl.  that yeat he'd also produced an outstanding kickoff coverage unit (best in the nfl), that kept opponents less than 20 yards from their own endzone 17 times.  in his final year with the raiders he produced a unit that was 3rd in the nfl in punt return average.

during his 2004 season with the new york jets as tight ends coach, curtis martin won the nfl rushing title (by 1 yard).

his first season with the seahawks, in 2005, was rocky but not without success.  the special teams were plagued by injuries and saw a rotation of injury replacements.  casullo had lost former special teams pro bowler alex bannister to another broken collar bone, and the other injuries to wrs, lbs and db began to eat into his personnel.  there were also miscues:  several fumbles on kick and punt returns, some lost, notably at (certainly not in) the hands of josh scobey seemed to portend ill tidings.  blown coverages that allowed a kick return for a touchdown in st. loius versus the hated rams, and a punt return for a touchdown by steve smith in the nfc championship game threatened to doom the seahawks greatest season.  but converted safety jordan "big play babs" babineaux forced a fumble on special teams which was recovered by long snapper j.p. darche to seal the victory in st. louis.  there was evidence of an illegal block in the back freeing steve smith for the punt returned for a td, but the officials picked up the flag, surprising and elating the carolina radio crew.  josh brown who provided his share of game winning kicks ultimately tied a franchise record of 8 50+ yard field goals and earned an invite as a pro bowl alternate.  

the criticism of casullo that sticks the best is his choosing punter tom rouen over donnie jones who lead the nfl in net avg punt yards (for the miami dolphins).  rouen did have a few standout performances, particularly in the nfc divisional game in seattle and parts of the nfc championship game.  but he was prone to getting off the occasional flat, exceptionally returnable punt.  casullo was adamant that rouen's veteran touch would made him a better choice than the somewhat more powerful jones.  rouen may well have been the difference for the seahawks as they struggled in the first part of the divisional matchup against the redskins, but his performance in the super bowl left much to be desired.  at the start of 2006, rouen has gone off to san francisco, leaving wake forest university standout ryan "the mule" plackmeier and gabe lindstrom the promising nfl europe veteran to battle for the solution to last year's problem.

on january 19, 2007, casullo was hired as the tight ends coach for the tampa bay buccaneers, replacing the departing ron middleton.  he joined the staff immediately and will be part of the coaching staff for the senior bowl.
references.










</doc>
<doc id="1493783" title="yakovlev yak-7" nonfiltered="396" processed="388" dbindex="399">


the yakovlev yak-7, also known as uti-26, was a soviet military trainer aircraft, developed as a trainer version of the yak-1. developed in 1942, a second cockpit was added behind the original one, and the wing span was increased. it was found that the extra space for the second cockpit could be used for fuel or armament too, and that the performance  of the yak-7 almost equalled that of the yak-1. thus the yak-7 was again developed to a close support fighter. the two-seat version was also used in combat, for reconnaissance missions. a total of 6,399 were built.

variants.
 ya-27 - two-seats prototype converted from a pre-serial i-26;
 yak-7 - initial two-seat communication/trainer version;
 yak-7v - (uti-26, vyvoznoy) production version of two-seater; about 1.500 were built.
 yak-7a - production single-seat fighter version with m-105p piston engine;
 yak-7b - upgraded version of yak-7a (reduced wingspan, simplified landing gear, better equipment), about 5000 were built.
 yak-7d - long range prototype.
 yak-7k courier - vip transport version. converted from yak-7b. 1944.
 yak-7u mark;
 yak-7pvrd - experimental - had two dm-4 ramjet under wings. two were built.
 yak-7di - direct predecessor of yak-9.
 yak-7 m-82 - new (m-82) engine version. tested in 1941.
 yak-7r - jet project with one liquid fuel jet and two ramjets. 1942.
 yak-7r - purported jet version of yak-7 with jumo 004 engine. said to have been built in tblilisi to fly over red square at the parade in 1947.
 yak-7r - yak-3 with jumo 004 turbojet. development started not later than 1945. first flown in 1946? ;
 yak-7t two aircraft for testing engine mounted heavy cannons (ns-37 and ns-45 -- 37mm and 45mm caliber respectively).

specifications (yak-7).


operators.
 france;
 soviet union.

external links.
yak-7 description on aviation.ru;
yakovlev fighters;

related content.















</doc>
<doc id="2283124" title="albertville, gauteng" nonfiltered="397" processed="389" dbindex="400">
albertville is a suburb of johannesburg, south africa. it is located in region 4.









</doc>
<doc id="168707" title="trey anastasio" nonfiltered="398" processed="390" dbindex="401">


trey anastasio (born ernest joseph anastasio iii on september 30, 1964) is an american guitarist, composer, and vocalist most noted for his work with the rock band phish. he is credited by name as composer of 152 phish originals, 140 of them as a solo credit, in addition to 41 credits attributed to the band in the generic. he was rated as number 73 on the rolling stone list of the 100 greatest guitarists of all time in 2003.

throughout his career, anastasio has participated in various projects outside of phish, furthering his reputation as a multifaceted composer, instrumentalist, and vocalist. 

life.

anastasio, whose name derives from the greek word for "resurrection," began playing the drums as a youth, turning to guitar while a teenager. his father was an executive with educational testing service (ets). anastasio's mother, with whom he wrote songs as a child, was an editor of sesame street magazine.  he attended princeton day school for junior high school, where he began to write music with some of his classmates. some of these songs (e.g. "golgi apparatus") would find their ways into the phish repertoire, and many other anastasio compositions refer to these early experiences. for senior high school, anastasio attended the taft school along with the dude of life, who helped pen such phish compositions as "suzy greenberg," "fluffhead," "skippy the wondermouse," "run like an antelope," "slave to the traffic light," and "dinner and a movie." at taft, anastasio founded his first two bands, red tide and space antelope.

after anastasio completed high school, he enrolled in the university of vermont, attending from fall of 1983 to spring of 1984 as a philosophy major. it was here that he met jon fishman, mike gordon, and jeff holdsworth, who founded phish in 1983. in december of 1983 the group formed to play an rotc dance. they played a setlist of cover songs, including "proud mary" which was performed twice. the band was very primitive at this time and used hockey sticks as mic stands. after performing one set, michael jackson's thriller album was put on by a partygoer to drown out the band. the band wouldn't return to play but were still paid for the performance.  while at the university of vermont, anastasio hosted an early morning radio program, ambient alarm clock.

anastasio was eventually suspended from college for an entire semester after he broke into the science building and stole a human hand and a goat's heart. he sent it to his friend as a prank with a note that said "i've got to hand it to you, you've got heart." during his suspension, anastasio attended classes at mercer county community college while living at home and while there met up with old friend tom marshall. also attending mercer was marc daubert who would later occasionally play percussion with phish in 1984. after seeing a phish show, pianist page mcconnell joined phish in the spring of 1985, anastasio, along with jon fishman, transferred to goddard college, which he attended from fall of 1986 to spring of 1988.

during this time anastasio also began a lifelong association with composer ernie stires, who taught him techniques for composition and arranging. while at goddard, anastasio assembled the song cycle the man who stepped into yesterday as his senior project. these songs would become mainstays of the phish catalog. anastasio graduated from goddard in 1988 with a music degree.

anastasio married susan eliza stateser on august 13, 1994 ,and fathered two daughters, eliza jean and isabella. the family resides in new york, new york and richmond, vermont.

after the break-up of phish in 2004, anastasio has continued to tour periodically, both fronting his own band, the 70 volt parade, and also a 2006 collaboration with phish bassist mike gordon and the new york city jazz/post-rock group, the benevento/russo duo. 

at 3:30 am on december 15, 2006, anastasio was stopped by a whitehall, ny patrolman for failure to keep right.  he was summarily arrested for a dwi-drugs, driving with a suspended license, and possessing prescription drugs in whitehall, ny. the drugs included hydrocodone and percocet which were prescribed to someone else. he was released under the custody of a friend and the court date for these charges was set for january 10, 2007, at whitehall village court. if convicted, he will face up to a year in jail. on jan. 3, 2007, while at his arraignment on misdemeanor drug charges, a local television station reported that law enforcement sources claim that anastasio also had a quantity of heroin in the car.  further, it appears the district attorney is ready to up the charges to a felony, although the da said that it is likely anastasio will be ordered to take part in a drug re-habilitation program to avoid going to jail."

projects.
both before and after the dissolution of phish in august of 2004, anastasio has fronted and participated in a variety of different ensembles, including:
space antelope from 1982-1983 featuring anastasio, the dude of life, and others, which performed originals as well as covers from rush, the velvet underground, and others.  ;
bivouac jaun in 1984 was a project featuring anastasio, phish lyricist tom marshall, and one-time phish percussionist marc daubert. the group recorded a four-track project during phish's short hiatus in the summer of 1984. much of the project would be retooled and later featured on the first phish album - the white tape - in 1986.
bad hat in 1994, which included fellow vermonter jamie masefield on mandolin, played jazz for a few months. they billed themselves as "the quietest band around.";
surrender to the air in 1995 and 1996: a "colorful exploration" of sound. the group was experimental, including long sections of improvisation all connected by segments conducted by anastasio. the group released a self-titled album in march of 1996. it featured several members of the late sun ra's big band, the arkestra, which was (among other modes) an archetypical free jazz ensemble.
new york! in 1997 was one performance with anastasio, gordon, james harvey, and a punk band called "the pants." several phish songs were debuted by new york!, including "dirt" and "saw it again", along with covers by ace frehley and others.
eight foot fluorescent tubes in 1998 was a local band in vermont fronted by anastasio on april 17 of that year at the nightclub higher ground, co-owned by his brother-in-law. the band debuted a number of songs heard in anastasio's live performances today, including "first tube", "last tube", and "mozambique.";
 phil lesh and friends (commonly referred to as phil lesh and phriends) in 1999  featured anastasio, grateful dead members phil lesh and donna jean godchaux, mcconnell, guitarist steve kimock, and drummer john molo performing three nights of dead and phish material at the warfield in san francisco, california. it was a historic event because it represented the very first time members of both phish and the dead shared the stage together. on february 12, 2006, anastasio joined lesh again for a full show at the beacon theater in new york city. ;
the trio in 1999 was an evolution of eight foot fluorescent tubes. anastasio's first solo tour was with the trio, which included himself, russ lawton, and tony markellis.
the vermont youth orchestra has performed with trey on a number of occasions from the year 2000 until today. trey's attraction to complex compositions was apparent on his 2004 release, seis de mayo, which included some of his work with the vermont youth orchestra, as well as other smaller ensembles.
the sextet in 2000 was an evolution of the trio with three horn players added to the band (dave grippo on alto sax, jennifer hartswick on trumpet and tuba, and andy moroz on trombone). some of the music originally performed by the sextet was later seen on his 2002 release, trey anastasio.
oysterhead in 2000 was a trio which included primus bassist les claypool and the police drummer stewart copeland. the "supergroup", as it was called, released an album in 2001 named the grand pecking order. the band reunited june 16, 2006 at the bonnaroo music festival.
the octet in 2001 was an evolved version of the sextet, which added ray paczkowski on keyboards and russell remington on tenor sax and flute.
the dectet in 2002 through 2004 explored complex arrangements and changes of some songs included on trey anastasio, and was an evolved version of the octet, now a ten-piece band with the addition of peter apfelbaum on barritone sax and percussion, and cyro baptista on percussion.
dave matthews & friends beginning in 2003 is a band formed to tour in support of dave matthews's solo debut some devil.  most of the band, including anastasio, performed on the album.
70 volt parade is more of a stereotypical-form rock band than his past solo bands. the band featured ray paczkowski on keyboards, les hall on guitar and synthesizers, and skeeto valdez on drums. the band was formed in early 2005, and has since been replaced by trey anastasio band.
serialpod is a trio featuring anastasio, gordon and bill kreutzmann. on december 17, 2005, the band performed at the 14th annual warren haynes christmas jam in asheville, north carolina. the group performed a series of grateful dead and phish classics, plus covers from nirvana, jimi hendrix, and others. ivan neville joined the group on keyboards for much of the performance.
trey anastasio band after continuous lineup changes to 70 volt parade, anastasio solidified his lineup and began touring in 2006 as trey anastasio band, a name fans unofficially called his previous solo band.
a 4 piece, group consisting of the benevento/russo duo, gordon and anastasio. the duo have been playing with anastasio and gordon for several months and are currently working on new material.  the group, sometimes referred to as grab (gordon, russo, anastasio, benevento) or mike and the italians, traded opening and closing spots with phil lesh and friends during their co-headlining summer 2006 tour before going out on their own for a number of shows in july 2006.  these shows were remarkable due to the fact that they featured an acoustic set without benevento and russo where gordon played the banjo and anastasio played the acoustic guitar.

anastasio the guitarist.

anastasio enjoys a reputation as one of the preeminent guitarists working today. he played drums in early youth, but quickly developed a facility for the acoustic guitar and, more notably, the electric guitar. 

anastasio has employed the services of his friend and audio technician paul languedoc (phish's soundman from 1986 - 2004) throughout his career. the highly resonant hollowbody electric guitars built by languedoc for anastasio, his ibanez tube screamers, and ross compressors are key to his signature tone.  trey has three custom languedoc hollowbody electric guitars:

 "old reliable" is a white/light blonde colored hollowbody that debuted in 1987.  the body was made from a combination of spruce and walnut.  it was trey's main guitar until 1990, and backup until 1996.
 the second languedoc hollowbody is a blonde padauk.  the headstock inlay featuring trey's dog marley was slightly larger than on old reliable.  this guitar was trey's main guitar from 1990-1996, and became the backup in 1997 and remains so.
 the third languedoc guitar has a flame koa body and features a bronze nut and saddles instead of bone.  according to languedoc, this guitar has "the most brilliant sound" of the three instruments.  this guitar has been used by trey in virtually all live appearances since 1997.  "trey is a one guitar guy," says languedoc.;

the designs of anastasio's languedoc guitars, inspired in part by the commercially unsuccessful fender starcaster, are uniquely conceived and handcrafted instruments that make use of set maple necks with 24-fret ebony fretboards, dual seymour duncan '57 reissue paf humbuckers, and custom-wired electronics.  the first two languedocs also featured a single coil pickup in the middle (each was removed when it became the backup guitar). because they are true hollowbodies (as opposed to semi-hollowbody construction), and because anastasio typically plays with two ibanez tube screamer overdrives and a compressor through a large  public address system, the guitars are prone to excessive audio feedback, requiring a great deal of manual dexterity and control on the guitarist's part in order to manage the tone. anastasio has learned to tame this feedback and often used it to his advantage in the creation of psychedelic and other-worldly sounds onstage and in the studio ("the squirming coil", "the divided sky," and "you enjoy myself", to name a few, use this unique feedback in portions of the song).

anastasio's electric guitar technique is largely conventional; he does not typically make use of tapping techniques and does not play slide guitar. he normally uses a 2.0mm adamas graphite guitar pick but does not always do so. melodically, he often incorporates modes, notably the dorian, mixolydian, and locrian, as well as pentatonic scales. in addition to scales, trey makes abundant use of arpeggios while improvising as well as in his compositional material. he is known for his skill in improvisation. in the tradition of bebop players, he often quotes, or "teases" his own music or the music of others in his solos, sometimes subtly and other times directly. 

trey uses barre chords extensively, including open voicings of minor seventh, minor ninth, and minor thirteenth chords in addition to the sharp ninth chords associated with blues-based guitarists such as jimi hendrix. he incorporates exotic chord progressions and voicings, chord substitutions, ghost notes, and rhythmic scratching.

while he has concentrated more on funk, jazz, and rock and roll styles in his electric guitar technique (especially since phish's remain in light cover on halloween 1996), anastasio is also well-versed in country music and bluegrass modes of playing and has credited jerry garcia as an influence in this realm.

effects processors play a crucial role in anastasio's guitar technique. he uses effects such as two ibanez ts-9 tube screamers (with analogman's silver mod) in sequence, chorus/univibe-like effects, a ross compressor (he switched eventually to analogman's bicompressor) , a wah wah pedal (usually a real mccoy custom 3 by geoffrey teese), phrase samplers, tremolo, delay, reverb, and pitch shifters, as well as a leslie rotating speaker horn. while most electric guitarists incorporate effects, a tradition pioneered by hendrix, anastasio switches between combinations of effects with a greater degree of facility and creativity than is the norm. he is aided in this by a custom audio controller that allows him to control combinations of electronics efficiently in batch with his feet. his use of delay loops is a signature. also, anastasio is known for frequent switching between combinations of guitar pickups and for continually adjusting their tone and volume levels.  

in the late 90's, trey moved from a custom 2x12 cab to a pair of mid 60's blackface fender deluxe reverb amps, one serving as a backup.    

anastasio currently plays an acoustic by martin. in 2005, martin released a trey anastasio signature model acoustic guitar. in his acoustic playing, anastasio makes use of nontraditional tunings to create ethereal ambiance or to recreate folk styles, as did jimmy page.

trey's guitar rig
by: scott harris (strangedesign.org)

amps/speakers
- fender deluxe reverb
- bruno 4x12 speaker cabinet
- leslie speaker

rack
- furman power conditioner
- korg dtr2 tuner
- ibanez dm2000 delay
- custom audio electronics (cae) super tremolo
- custom audio electronics  (cae) black cat vibe
- alesis nanoverb (x2)
- alesis microverb i
- custom audio electronics (cae) 4x4 switcher

floor
- real mccoy rmc3 wah (in dunlop case)
- ibanez tube screamer (x2) (ts9/808 silver mod)
- ernie ball volume
- digitech whammy ii
- custom audio electronics (cae) rs-10 midi foot controller
- boomerang phrase sampler
- custom a/b (cae super tremolo)
- dunlop expression pedal (cae super tremolo)
- trek ii uc-1a (leslie)
- boss fs-5l (leslie latching)
- boss fs-5u (leslie unlatching)
- custom amp selector (fender deluxe reverb)

anastasio the composer.


in the early years of phish, many of anastasio's compositions were through-composed, intricate and detailed in conception (e.g. "the divided sky," "you enjoy myself," "the asse festival," "reba," "fluff's travels"). particularly in the music he has written for his touring and recording projects apart from phish, anastasio has used improvisation as the driving force behind simplified songwriting. some commentators have speculated that, in this shift, he could be consciously or unconsciously creating a body of standards upon which future generations of musicians will be able to elaborate.

marshall, a new jersey computer systems professional and friend of anastasio since his princeton childhood, has been his primary songwriting collaborator, acting as lyricist. trey has often pulled lyrics for his music from large notebooks of poems and prose kept by marshall, and the pair have also taken working retreats during which they wrote and/or recorded demos of new material. one such demo, trampled by lambs and pecked by the dove, has been commercially released, and many of the songs included on this release were reincarnated into phish's farmhouse. anastasio also writes a number of his own lyrics, including all of the lyrics on his first release with columbia records, 2005's shine.

anastasio has also demonstrated skill at composing chamber music and music for orchestra, most notably on seis de mayo, his eponymously titled second album, and in his collaborations with the vermont youth orchestra.

the barn.

"the barn" is the name given to anastasio's legendary rehearsal and recording facility in the countryside near burlington, vermont. it was reconstructed between 1996 and 1998 from an existing structure, the alan irish barn. the barn has been used by phish and most of anastasio's projects since 1999.

other artists who have recorded and/ or performed at the barn include herbie hancock, b\e9la fleck, john patitucci, dj logic, toots and the maytals, tony levin, umphrey's mcgee, the slip, raq, john medeski, jerry douglas, patty labelle,  nicholas cassarino, and addison groove project, among others.

discography.
studio albums. 

 
1. one man's trash (october 27, 1998)


2. trampled by lambs and pecked by the dove (with tom marshall) (november 1, 2000)

 
3. trey anastasio (april 30, 2002)


4. seis de mayo (april 6, 2004)


5. shine (november 1, 2005)


6. bar 17 (october 3, 2006)

live albums.

1. plasma (april 29, 2003)

eps.


1. live in chicago (november 1, 2005) (as as bonus with shine)


2. 18 steps (october 3, 2006) (as a bonus with bar 17, also available for download via livephish)

dvds.


1. trey anastasio with special guests carlos santana (2004, recorded live in san francisco, ca on may 31, 2003)

tv.


1. inside out: trey and dave go to africa (2004, documentary based in senegal, africa featuring dave matthews and orchestra baobab)



 references .


external links.
trey anastasio's official website;
phish's official website;
trey anastasio arrested dec.15, 2006;
trey anastasio on myspace;
jambase.com article;
prefixmag.com article;














</doc>
<doc id="6821423" title="idiga" nonfiltered="399" processed="391" dbindex="402">
edigas or idigas are a community of people living mainly in south central areas of karnataka. in costal areas of karnataka they are known as billava or thiyya. in  some parts of karanataka they also called deevaru means islanders.their main profession were toddy tapping, brewing arrack etc, but now not many people do their traditional job. it is one of the progressive communities of karnataka.

myths and theories of origin.
the origin of the word edigas is hotly disputed. according to one theory, the etymology of the word edigas is 'people of eda' or ida being an ancient kannada name for sri lanka. they also called deevaru. the word deevaru might had come from the sanskrit word dweep means island which again points to srilanka.

another theory is that the word eda or ida is derived from archaic kannada word ira for toddy. interestingly edigas or idigas were into toddy shopping business.

 edigas today .
edigas are the group based in karnataka, traditionally involved in toddy tapping, liquor sales, ayurveda doctors and farming.due to their hard-work and sheer determination, now they are fast improving, spiritual, gaining strength economically, culturally and politically.

population and religious belief.
their population is about 3,000,000(excluding billava and ezhava(thiyya) communities). they mainly live in bangalore, chikmagalur, chitradurga, shimoga, hassan and tumkur districts.  their subgroups are mudde idiga, swaswe idiga and arya idiga  -- based on their past occupations. their traditional occupation is toddy tapping.  and some also engaged in agriculture.  they consider yellamma as their community deity.

 popular leaders .

there are many popular edigas like dr rajkumar, s.bangarappa, shivaraj kumar, janardhan poojari .

kagodu satyagraha.

kagodu satyagraha was an agrarian movement launched in parts of sagar taluk of shimoga district in the early fifties, was a spontaneous protest against the exploitation and oppression of poor tenants and  by the idiga .the movement was in support of the poor and oppressed tenants. people from the deevaru (idiga) community participated in it in large numbers.the protest, which started on a small scale, gained momentum with the active participation of veteran socialists such as ram manohar lohia, jayaprakash narayan and gopala gowda. it was said that  social impact of the movement was such that it resulted in the enactment of the land reforms act in the early seventies by the then chief minister, d. devaraj urs, which proclaimed that "the tiller is the owner of the land. 

other names.
halepaik,deewaru,eliga and iliga.

 in neigboring states .
in andhra pradesh, the idigas or edigas live in the rayalaseema area.  they are also called gowda, goundala and kalali in the telangana area, and gowda, gamalia and setti balija in the rest of andhra pradesh.  they consider gangamma as their community deity.  in tamil nadu, the idiga are also known as iluvar, naidu, vadugan, ediga balija and gavara.  they use naidu as their title.  naidu, vadugan, ediga balija and gavara migrated from andhra pradesh, while iluvars are indigenous or kerala origin. they have a village council headed by a leader from the mudaliar community in the area. in kerala they are called ezhava or thiyya or billava (kasarkode district).in srilanka  they are called nalavar or durava.jaiswal community in north india also is similar caste. 

ezhavas, iluvars , graminis, gouds, idigas, edigas, thiyyas, billavas, swarnis, poojaris,shanars, nalavars, duravas are the names(according to local language influence) given to same community in  different areas.

see also.
 narayana guru;
 billava a tulu and a malayalam community;
 goud or ediga a telugu community;
 ezhava or thiyya a malayalam  community. ;
 iluvar (caste) a tamil speaking kerala community of tamil nadu;
 nalavar a tamil community from  srilanka (of kerala origin)  and not found in tamil nadu;
 durave a srilankan ezhava community who speaks simhala;



</doc>
<doc id="5522090" title="south sanpete school district" nonfiltered="400" processed="392" dbindex="403">
south sanpete school district is a public school district in the u.s. state of utah. the district provides education for students in the southern half of sanpete county. the offices for the district are located in manti. there are 3 elementary schools, 2 middle schools, 2 high schools and 2 alternative schools within the district; enrollment in 2004 was 2,792 students.

schools in this district.



see also.
north sanpete school district;

external links.
district website;





</doc>
<doc id="6225623" title="advanced surface movement guidance and control system" nonfiltered="401" processed="393" dbindex="404">
the advanced - surface movement guidance and control system is a system at airports that uses surveillance sources such as primary surveillance radar, secondary surveillance radar and surface movement radar to provide an accurate picture of the activity on the airport surface in order to prevent accidents.




</doc>
<doc id="4732827" title="bree timmins" nonfiltered="402" processed="394" dbindex="405">

breanna "bree" timmins  is a fictional character on the popular australian soap opera neighbours, portrayed by sianoa smit-mcphee. she first appeared in 2005 and has been in the show ever since. 

bree won a national spelling bee in 2005 and was the winner of $15,000 aud.  bree offered the money to her mother, janelle, because the family was in debt at the time, but janelle decided that the family should all get jobs and that bree was entitled to the money she had won.

bree re-wrote most of her non-biological mother janelle's first novel, the bogan's tipped hair, and this was disclosed by janelle in an (fictional) episode of rove live, a real television program aired on network ten, the same network that neighbours is aired on.

in 2006, it was discovered during a science project that she is not the biological daughter of janelle or kim timmins.  the midwife who took care of bree at the hospital revealed that bree was switched at birth accidentally because she didn't write out the id tags leading to bree wanting to find her real family. bree's search for her real family is kept hidden from her non-biological parents because of what they might think, but when janelle finds out about the search she is supportive. bree's search ends abruptly when she receives a letter from her biological parents telling her to stop searching for them, they do not want to know her.

lately, she has decided that since she does not know her birth parents, she has no real identity. consequentially, she has tried a range of new looks, including paris hilton, and most recently, gothic. her boyfriend zeke is keeping up with her new looks in an effort to impress her.

bree makes friends with her biggest book fan anne, who is blind. anne is the biological daughter of janelle and kim timmins, though she tries to hide it from her and the rest of the timmins family. still searching for a non-timmins identity, bree looked into changing her name by deed poll, but after finding out that she isn't old enough (a person must be 18 or over "age of adulthood in australia" to change their name), she instructed rachel to tell people to call her trinity black.

bree's non-biological grandmother loris later revealed to harold bishop that she swapped bree with anne when they were babies because she felt janelle would be an unfit mother.  she felt guilty about what she had done and said that she wanted to make things right.  she then left erinsborough.  bree is still unaware that loris is the cause of the mix-up.

 family tree .
bree was switched at birth with anne baxter, the biological daughter of janelle and kim timmins.  bree has yet to meet her biological family; below is the family she has been raised with.

 paternal line .
loris beaumont (non-biological grandmother) married to harry timmins (non-biological grandfather);
kim timmins (non-biological father) married to janelle rebecchi (non-biological mother);
dwayne timmins (non-biological brother);
brandon timmins (non-biological brother);
dylan timmins (non-biological brother);
kerry mangel, jr. (non-biological niece);
scott "stingray" timmins (non-biological brother);
janae timmins (non-biological sister), married to boyd hoyland (non-biological brother in-law);
anne baxter (non biological sister)

 maternal line .
 janelle rebecchi (non-biological mother) married to kim timmins (non-biological father);
kevin rebecchi (uncle), married to angie rebecchi (aunt);
shane rebecchi (cousin);
stonefish rebecchi (cousin);
toadfish rebecchi (cousin), married to dione bliss (deceased);




</doc>
<doc id="6007581" title="suicide (second album)" nonfiltered="403" processed="395" dbindex="406">


track listing.
 "diamonds, fur coat, champagne";
 "mr. ray";
 "sweetheart"	;
 "fast money music";
 "touch me";
 "harlem";
 "be bop kid";
 "las vegas man";
 "shadazz";
 "dance";

note: the two-disc special edition version of this album (1998 blast first/mute) incorrectly labelled the tracks "touch me" and "harlem" in the wrong order. when listening to the cd, "harlem" is 5th after "fast money music", and "touch me" is 6th, before "be bop kid".




</doc>
<doc id="1880615" title="end of world war ii in the pacific" nonfiltered="404" processed="396" dbindex="407">
august 6 1945 - first atomic bomb, little boy dropped on hiroshima from a b-29 superfortress named enola gay flown by col. paul tibbets.
august 8 1945 - u.s.s.r. declares war on japan then invades manchuria.
august 9 1945 - second atomic bomb, fat man is dropped on nagasaki, also from a b-29 named bockscar flown by maj. charles sweeney -- emperor hirohito and japanese prime minister suzuki then decide to seek an immediate peace with the allies.
august 14 1945 - japanese accept unconditional surrender; gen. macarthur is appointed to head the occupation forces in japan.
august 16 1945 - gen. wainwright, a pow since may 6, 1942, is released from a pow camp in manchuria.
august 27 1945 - b-29s drop supplies to allied pows in china.
august 29 1945 - the soviets shoot down a b-29 dropping supplies to pows in korea; u.s. troops land near tokyo to begin the occupation of japan.
august 30 1945 - the united kingdom reoccupies hong kong.
september 2 1945 - formal japanese surrender ceremony on board the uss missouri in tokyo bay as 1,000 carrier-based planes fly overhead; president truman declares vj day.
september 3 1945 - the japanese commander in the philippines, gen. yamashita, surrenders to gen. wainwright at baguio.
september 4 1945 - japanese troops on wake island surrender.
september 5 1945 - british land in singapore.
september 8 1945 - macarthur enters tokyo.
september 9 1945 - japanese in korea surrender.
september 13 1945 - japanese in burma surrender.







</doc>
<doc id="1229372" title="kit warhurst" nonfiltered="405" processed="397" dbindex="408">
kit warhurst (born 31 july 1971) is the drummer for australian rock band rocket science. he is the brother of triple j radio presenter myf warhurst. he is also the drummer for the city lights and previously played in a band called manic suede with his brother, andre warhurst. the city lights have a new album due out in 2007.

during 2005, kit worked with merrick & rosso on their network ten tv show the b team and has become a member of rockside dept with tim ross, touring england in early december 2005






</doc>
<doc id="3013083" title="uekae" nonfiltered="406" processed="398" dbindex="409">
 
ulusal elektronik ve kriptoloji ara t rma enstit\fcs\fc
(national istitute for electronics and cryptology research in turkish)

turkish government organization with the aim of developing advanced technologies for information security.

external links.
national institute for electronics and cryptology research web site ;








</doc>
<doc id="6049064" title="athena no hate na?" nonfiltered="407" processed="399" dbindex="410">




athena no hate na? is a quiz arcade game by athena, released in 1993 in japan only. you are shown pictures in various puzzle forms and have to make a guess from 4 multiple choice answers. the title of this game translates from japanese as 'goodness, athena?'.









</doc>
<doc id="402097" title="marlon jackson" nonfiltered="408" processed="400" dbindex="411">
for the similarly named american football player, see marlin jackson.;

marlon david jackson (born march 12, 1957 in gary, indiana) is an american singer and musician, former member of the jackson 5, and brother of american pop stars michael jackson and janet jackson. born in gary, indiana to parents joseph and katherine jackson, marlon was premature; his twin brother, brandon, died within hours of birth.

the jackson 5 and early years.
marlon was about 6 years old when his father, joseph, formed his five oldest sons into the jackson 5 singing and dancing group. the second youngest of the jackson 5, marlon was only one year older than the lead singer of the group, michael.  michael was clearly a child prodigy, and marlon had trouble performing as well as him. multiple family sources have said that joseph would sometimes beat marlon for failing to dance as well as michael.  joseph wanted to drop marlon from the group, but mother katherine jackson insisted that he stay.

in 1968, the jackson 5 signed a major label recording contract with motown records.  due to a contract dispute with a previous manager, it was about a year before motown could release any jackson 5 records.  around this time, the jackson family moved to california.  michael and marlon stayed briefly with singer diana ross until housing could be for the entire family.

once their first records were released at the end of 1969, the jackson 5 were an immediate success, with their first four singles going to #1 in the us.  the boys lived a busy life filled with recording and live performances. fans would often "mob" the boys, sometimes creating dangerous situations. michael and marlon were forced to leave the california public school system due to fans disrupting their classroom.  from that point on, most of their education would come from a private tutor.

the move to epic and marriage.
by 1974, fans had moved on to the next new group, and the jackson 5's record sales had slowed considerably, although they were still a major concert draw.  the brothers and their father wanted motown to give the group better promotion and more artistic control, but motown refused., the group left motown in the mid-1970s and signed with epic records. the middle brother, jermaine, was married at the time to the daughter of motown's founder, and remained at motown.  the youngest jackson boy, randy, joined the group at this point, bringing the number of brothers in the group back to five.  however, motown claimed ownership of the name "jackson 5", and the brothers recorded for epic under the name "the jacksons."

at the age of 18, marlon married carol parker, an 18-year-old he'd known since childhood and with whom he kept in contact throughout his jackson 5 fame.  they eloped in august of 1975, thus becoming the first of many jackson siblings to marry without the knowledge of other family members. he lived at home with his parents for five months before they learned that he was married. 

the jacksons' first two albums for epic were not commercial successes, but joseph and michael persuaded epic to let the jacksons start writing and producing their own material.  one of the subsequent songs, "shake your body (down to the ground)", written by michael and randy jackson, became a major success and helped to return the jackson brothers to stardom.

leaving the jacksons.
the jacksons recorded several successful albums during this period, such as destiny, triumph and victory.  however, their fame was eclipsed by the sizeable success of michael's solo career. in 1984-1985, the jacksons (including jermaine) embarked on their last tour together.  this tour, the victory tour was marked by strife between the brothers and public criticism of high ticket prices.  michael vowed never to tour with his brothers again, and marlon also was disillusioned about performing with the jacksons.  the next and final jacksons album, 2300 jackson street, was recorded without the participation of marlon or michael. in 1987 through capitol records, marlon released his one and only solo album, baby tonight. although well received by fans of the jacksons, it was only a modest commercial success.

marlon also produced songs on his sisters' albums: one song on rebbie's centipede and two songs on janet's dream street in 1984 and two songs on latoya's my special love in 1982.

later life.
unlike his brothers, marlon decided to embark on a career outside of show business, becoming a successful real estate agent in southern california. he also is part owner of the black family channel, a cable network designed to bring family-friendly programming to the black community.  he rejoined his brothers for two concerts in 2001 to celebrate michael's 30th anniversary as a solo performer.

marlon is still married to carol, making him the only one of the six jackson brothers to avoid divorce.  the couple lives in california, and has three children: valencia, britney and marlon jackson jr.





















</doc>
<doc id="7013959" title="o irixo" nonfiltered="409" processed="401" dbindex="412">


o irixo is a municipality in ourense (province) in the galicia region of north-west spain. it is located in the very northwest of the province.










</doc>
<doc id="37242" title="booker t. washington" nonfiltered="410" processed="402" dbindex="413">



booker taliaferro washington (april 5, 1856,   november 14, 1915) was an american educator, political leader,  and author.

he was born into slavery to a white father and a slave mother on a rural farm in southwestern virginia. after the slaves were freed there in 1865, he worked in west virginia in a variety of manual labor jobs for several years before making his way to hampton roads seeking an education. he worked his way through the school which is now hampton university and attended college at wayland seminary. after returning to hampton as a teacher, upon recommendation of hampton's president, sam armstrong, he was named in 1881 as the first leader of the new normal school which became tuskegee university in alabama.  
 
washington became widely-viewed as the most dominant figure in the african american community in the entire united states from 1890 to 1915, especially after he achieved prominence for his atlanta address of 1895. to many politicians and the public in general, he was seen as a popular spokesperson for african american citizens. representing the last generation of black leaders born into slavery, he was considered credible when speaking publicly and seeking educational improvements for those freedmen who had remained in the new south in an uneasy modus vivendi with the white southerners. throughout the final 20 years of his life, he maintained this standing through a nationwide network of core supporters in many communities, including educators, ministers, and businessmen, especially those who were black and/or liberal-thinking on social and educational issues. he gained access to top national leaders in politics, philanthropy and education, and was awarded honorary degrees including a doctorate. critics called his network of supporters the "tuskegee machine." 

dr. washington was criticized by the leaders of the new naacp, which was formed in 1909, especially w.e.b. dubois, who demanded a harder line on civil rights protests. after being labeled "the great accommodator" by dubois, dr. washington replied that confrontation would lead to disaster for the outnumbered blacks, and that cooperation with supportive whites was the only way to overcome pervasive racism in the long run. however, while he did some aggressive civil rights work secretively, such as funding court cases, . in general, he seemed to truly believe in skillful accommodation to many of the social realities of the age of segregation. . while apparently resolved to many undesirable social conditions in the short term, he also clearly had his eyes on a better future for blacks. through his own personal experience, he knew that good educations were a major and powerful tool for individuals to collectively accomplish that.   

his philosophy and tireless work on education issues helped him enlist both the moral and substantial financial support of many philanthropists. he became friends with such self-made men from modest beginnings as standard oil magnate henry huttleston rogers and sears, roebuck and company chairman julius rosenwald. these individuals and many other wealthy men and women funded his causes, such as supporting the institutions of higher education at hampton and tuskegee. each school was originally founded to produce teachers,. however, many had often gone back to their local communities to find precious few schools and educational resources to work with in the largely impoverished south. to address those needs, through provision of millions of dollars and innovative matching funds programs, dr. washington and his philanthropic network stimulated local community contributions to build small community schools. together, these efforts eventually established and operate over 5,000 schools and supporting resources for the betterment of blacks throughout the south in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. the local schools were a source of much community pride and were of priceless value to african-american families during those troubled times in public education. this work was a major part of his legacy and was continued (and expanded through the rosenwald fund and others) for many years after washington's death in 1915. 

in addition to his substantial contributions in the field of education, dr. washington did much to improve the overall friendship and working relationship between the races in the united states. his autobiography, up from slavery, first published in 1901, is still widely read today.

youth, freedom and education.
 

booker t. washington was born on april 5 1856 on the burroughs farm at the community of hale's ford, virginia. his mother jane was a cook and his father was a white man from a nearby farm. even though his last name was washington, the "t" in his slave name stood for taliaferro, his master's name.  he recalled emancipation in early 1865: from slavery 19-21

as the great day drew nearer, there was more singing in the slave quarters than usual. it was bolder, had more ring, and lasted later into the night.  most of the verses of the plantation songs had some reference to freedom.... some man who seemed to be a stranger (a united states officer, i presume) made a little speech and then read a rather long paper -- the emancipation proclamation, i think. after the reading we were told that we were all free, and could go when and where we pleased. my mom, who was standing by my side, leaned over and kissed her children, while tears of joy ran down her cheeks. she explained to us what it all meant, that this was the day for which she had been so long praying, but fearing that she would never live to see.

in the summer of 1865, at the age of nine, booker and his brother john and his sister, amanda, moved to malden in kanawha county, west virginia with their mother to join his stepfather. he worked with his mother and other free blacks as a salt-packer and in a coal mine. he even signed up briefly as a hired hand on a steamboat. however, soon he became employed as a houseboy for viola (n\e9e knapp) ruffner, the wife of general lewis ruffner, who owned the salt-furnace and coal mine. many other houseboys had failed to satisfy the demanding and methodical mrs. ruffner, but booker's diligence and attention to detail met her standards. encouraged to do so by mrs. ruffner, when he could, young booker attended school and learned to read and to write. and soon, he sought even more education than was available in his community.   

leaving malden at sixteen, washington enrolled at the hampton normal and agricultural institute, in hampton, virginia. students with little income such as washington could get a place there by working to pay their way. the normal school at hampton was founded for the purpose of training black teachers and had been largely funded by church groups and  individuals such as william jackson palmer, a quaker, among others. in many ways he was back where he had started, earning a living through menial tasks, but his time at hampton led him away from a life of labor. from 1878 to 1879 he attended wayland seminary in washington, d.c., and returned to teach at hampton. soon, hampton officials recommended him to become the first principal of a similar school being founded in alabama.

tuskegee.

former slave lewis adams and other organizers of a new normal school in tuskegee, alabama sought a bright and energetic leader for their new school. they at first anticipated employing a white administrator, but instead, they found the desired qualities in 25 year-old booker t. washington. upon the strong recommendation of hampton university founder samuel c. armstrong, washington became the first           principal of tuskegee normal and industrial institute, which opened on july 4, 1881. the new school later developed into the tuskegee institute and is now tuskegee university. 

tuskegee provided an academic education and instruction for teachers, but placed more emphasis on providing young black boys with practical skills such as carpentry and masonry. the institute illustrates washington's aspirations for his race. his theory was, that by providing these skills, african americans   would play their part in society and this would lead to acceptance by white americans. he believed that african americans would eventually gain full civil rights by showing themselves to be responsible, reliable american citizens.   he was head of the school until his death in 1915. by then tuskegee's endowment had grown to over $1.5 million, compared to the initial $2,000 annual appropriation.

family.


washington was married three times. in his autobiography up from slavery, he gave all three of his wives enormous credit for their work at tuskegee and was emphatic that he would not have been successful without them.   
   
fannie n. smith was from malden, west virginia, the same kanawha river valley town located eight miles upriver from charleston where washington had lived from age nine to sixteen (and maintained ties throughout his later life). washington and smith were married in the summer of 1882. they had one child, portia m. washington. fannie died in may 1884.

he next wed olivia a. davidson in 1885. davidson was born in ohio, spent time teaching in mississippi and tennessee and received her education at hampton institute and the massachusetts state normal school at framingham. washington met davidson at tuskegee, where she had come to teach. she later became the assistant principal there. they had two sons, booker t. washington jr. and ernest davidson washington, before she died in 1889.

his third marriage took place in 1893 to margaret james murray. she was from mississippi and was a graduate of fisk university. they had no children together. murray outlived washington and died in 1925.

politics.

active in politics, booker t. washington was routinely consulted by republican congressmen and presidents about the appointment of african americans to political positions. he worked and socialized with many white politicians and notables. he argued that the surest way for blacks eventually to gain equal rights was to demonstrate patience, industry, thrift, and usefulness and said that these were the key to improved conditions for african americans in the united states and that they could not expect too much, having only just been granted emancipation. 

his 1895 atlanta compromise address, given at the cotton states and international exposition in atlanta, georgia, sparked a controversy wherein he was cast as an accommodationist among those who heeded frederick douglass' call to "agitate, agitate, agitate" for social change. a public debate soon began between those such as washington, who valued the so-called "industrial" education and those who, like w.e.b. dubois, supported the idea of a "classical" education among an elite group of african-americans (often described as the "talented tenth"). both sides sought to define the best means to improve the conditions of the post-civil war african-american community. washington's advice to african-americans to "compromise" and accept segregation, incensed other activists of the time, such as dubois, who labeled him "the great accommodator".  it should be noted, however, that despite not condemning jim crow laws and the inhumanity of lynching publicly, washington privately contributed funds for legal challenges against segregation and disfranchisement, such as his support in the case of giles v. harris, which went before the united states supreme court in 1903.

although early in dubois' career the two were friends and respected each other considerably, their political views diverged to the extent that after washington's death, dubois stated "in stern justice, we must lay on the soul of this man a heavy responsibility for the consummation of negro disfranchisement, the decline of the negro college and public school, and the firmer establishment of color caste in this land."

wealthy friends and benefactors.

washington associated with the richest and most powerful businessmen and politicians of the era. he was seen as a spokesperson for african americans and became a conduit for funding educational programs. his contacts included such diverse and well-known personages as andrew carnegie, william howard taft, henry huttleston rogers, and julius rosenwald, to whom he made the need for better educational facilities well-known. as a result, countless small schools were established through his efforts, in programs that continued many years after his death. 

henry rogers.

a representative case of an exceptional relationship was his friendship with millionaire industrialist henry h. rogers (1840-1909), a self-made man who had risen from a modest working-class family to become a principal of standard oil, and one of the richest men in the united states. around 1894, rogers heard washington speak at madison square garden. the next day, he contacted washington and requested a meeting, during which washington later recounted that he was told that rogers "was surprised that no one had 'passed the hat' after the speech." the meeting began a close relationship that was to extend over a period of 15 years. although he and the very-private rogers openly became visible to the public as friends, and washington was a frequent guest at rogers' new york office, his fairhaven, massachusetts summer home, and aboard his steam yacht kanawha, the true depth and scope of their relationship was not publicly revealed until after roger's sudden death of an a apoplectic stroke in may 1909.       



in june 1909, a few weeks later, dr. washington went on a previously planned speaking tour along the newly completed virginian railway, a $40 million dollar enterprise which had been built almost entirely from a substantial portion of rogers' personal fortune. as dr. washington rode in rogers' personal rail car, "dixie", he stopped and made speeches at many locations, where his companions later recounted that he had been warmly welcomed by both black and white citizens at each stop.   

dr. washington told his audiences that his goal of the trip as planned with rogers was to improve relations between the races and economic conditions for african americans along the route of the new railway, which touched many previously isolated communities in the southern portions of virginia and west virginia which had been passed by when earlier railroads were built. 

on this trip, dr. washington also publicly revealed for the first time that rogers had been quietly funding operations of 65 small country schools for african americans, and had given substantial sums of money to support tuskegee institute and hampton institute. he also disclosed that rogers had encouraged programs with matching funds requirements so the recipients would have a stake in knowing that they were helping themselves through their own hard work and sacrifice, and thereby, enhance their self-esteem.

anna t. jeanes.  

$1,000,000 was entrusted to him by anna t. jeanes (1822-1907) of philadelphia in 1907.  she hoped to construct some elementary schools for negro children in the south. her contributions and those of henry rogers and others funded schools in many communities where the white people were also very poor, and few funds were available for negro schools.

julius rosenwald.

julius rosenwald (1862-1932) was another self-made wealthy man with whom dr. washington found common ground. by 1908, rosenwald, son of an immigrant clothier, had risen to become president of sears, roebuck and company in chicago. rosenwald was one of a group of jewish-american businessmen who felt concerned about the poor state of african american education, especially in the southern states. 

in 1912 rosenwald was asked to serve on the board of directors of tuskegee institute, a position he held for the remainder of his life. rosenwald endowed tuskegee so that dr. washington could spend less time traveling to seek funding and devote more time towards management of the school. later in 1912, rosenwald provided funds for a pilot program involving six new small schools in rural alabama, which were designed, constructed and opened in 1913 and 1914 and overseen by tuskegee; the model proved successful. rosenwald established the the rosenwald fund. the school building program was one of its largest programs. using state-of-the-art architectural plans initially drawn by professors at tuskegee institute , the rosenwald fund spent over four million dollars to help build 4,977 schools, 217 teachers' homes, and 163 shop buildings in 883 counties in 15 states, from maryland to texas. the rosenwald fund used a system of matching grants, and black communities raised more than $4.7 million to aid the construction . these schools became known as rosenwald schools. by 1932, the facilities could accommodate one third of all african american children in southern u.s. schools.

up from slavery, invitation to the white house.

in an effort to inspire the "commercial, agricultural, educational, and industrial advancement" of african americans, booker t. washington founded the national negro business league (nnbl) in 1900.

 when his autobiography, up from slavery, was published in 1901, it became a bestseller and had a major impact on the african american community, and its friends and allies. washington in 1901 was the first african-american ever invited to the white house as the guest of president theodore roosevelt   white southerners complained loudly.  

the hard-driving washington finally collapsed in tuskegee, alabama due to a lifetime of overwork and died soon after in a hospital, on november 14, 1915. in march of 2006, with the permission of his descendants, examination of medical records indicated that he died of hypertension, with a blood pressure more than twice normal. he is buried on the campus of tuskegee university near the university chapel.

honors and memorials.

for his contributions to american society, dr. washington was granted an honorary masters of arts degree from harvard university in 1896 and an honorary  doctorate degree from dartmouth college in 1901. the first coin to feature an african-american was the booker t. washington memorial half dollar that was minted by the united states from 1946 to 1951. on april 7, 1940, dr. washington became the first african american to be depicted on a united states postage stamp. on april 5, 1956, the house where he was born in franklin county, virginia was designated as the booker t. washington national monument. a state park in chattanooga, tn was named in his honor, as was a bridge adjacent to his alma mater, hampton university, across the hampton river in hampton, virginia. robert russa moton, head of tuskegee university after booker t. washington's death, had two african americans aviators do an air tour, and afterward the plane was christened the booker t. washington. hampton university has a booker t. washington memorial in honor of being a prolific leader, author and educator for african americans.

at the center of the campus at tuskegee university, the booker t. washington monument, called "lifting the veil," was dedicated in 1922. the inscription at its base reads:
"he lifted the veil of ignorance from his people and pointed the way to progress through education and industry.";

numerous us high schools and middle schools are named after booker t. washington.

quotes.

"i will let no man drag me down so low as to make me hate him.";
"one man cannot hold another man down in the ditch without remaining down in the ditch with him." ;

"it is at the bottom of life we must begin, not at the top.";
"think about it: we went into slavery pagans; we came out christians. we went into slavery pieces of property; we came out american citizens. we went into slavery with chains clanking about our wrists; we came out with the american ballot in our hands...notwithstanding the cruelty and moral wrong of slavery, we are in a stronger and more hopeful condition, materially, intellectually, morally, and religiously, than is true of an equal number of black people in any other portion of the globe." - in up from slavery;

"there is another class of colored people who make a business of keeping the troubles, the wrongs, and the hardships of the negro race before the public. having learned that they are able to make a living out of their troubles, they have grown into the settled habit of advertising their wrongs -- partly because they want sympathy and partly because it pays. some of these people do not want the negro to lose his grievances, because they do not want to lose their jobs...there is a certain class of race-problem solvers who do not want the patient to get well, because as long as the disease holds out they have not only an easy means of making a living, but also an easy medium through which to make themselves prominent before the public.";

"even then i had a strong feeling that what our people most needed was to get a foundation in education, industry, and property, and for this i felt that they could better afford to strive than for political preferment." - in up from slavery;

"my experience has been that the time to test a true gentleman is to observe him when he is in contact with individuals of a race that is less fortunate than his own." - in up from slavery;

"i will not say that  became discouraged, for as i now look back over my life i do not recall that i ever became discouraged over anything that i set out to accomplish. i have begun everything with the idea that i could succeed, and i never had much patience with the multitudes of people who are always ready to explain why one cannot succeed." - in up from slavery;

"i have spoken of my admiration for general armstrong, and yet he was but a type of that christlike body of men and women who went into the negro schools at the close of the war by the hundreds to assist in lifting up my race. the history of the world fails to show a higher, purer, and more unselfish class of men and women than those who found their way into those negro schools." - in up from slavery;

"excellence is to do a common thing in an uncommon way.";

"in all things that are purely social we can be as separate as the fingers, yet one as the hand in all things essential to mutual progress." - from the seminal "atlanta compromise" address of 1895.
http://historymatters.gmu.edu/d/39/


references.
primary sources.
 washington, booker t. the awakening of the negro, the atlantic monthly, 78 (september, 1896).
 up from slavery: an autobiography (1901).
 washington, booker t. the atlanta compromise (1895).
 the booker t. washington papers university of illinois press online version of complete fourteen volume set of all letters to and from booker t. washington. ;
 cumulative index;

secondary sources.
 james d. anderson, the education of blacks in the south, 1860-1935 (1988);
 mark bauerlein. washington, du bois, and the black future" in wilson quarterly (autumn 2004).
 w. fitzhugh brundage, ed booker t. washington and black progress: up from slavery 100 years later (2003).
 louis r. harlan, booker t. washington: the making of a black leader, 1856-1900 (1972) the standard biography, vol 1.
 louis r. harlan. 'booker t. washington: the wizard of tuskegee 1901-1915 (1983), the standard scholarly biography vol 2.
 louis r. harlan. booker t. washington in perspective: essays of louis r. harlan (1988).
louis r. harlan.  "the secret life of booker t. washington."  journal of southern history 37:2 (1971).  in jstor documents booker t. washington's secret financing and directing of litigation against segregation and disfranchisement.
 linda o. mcmurry. george washington carver, scientist and symbol (1982);
august meier.  "toward a reinterpretation of booker t. washington."  the journal of southern history, 23#2 (may, 1957), pp. 220-227. in jstor.  documents booker t. washington's secret financing and directing of litigation against segregation and disfranchisement.
 cary d. wintz, african american political thought, 1890-1930: washington, du bois, garvey, and randolph (1996).

see also.
slave narrative;
african american literature.
list of african american firsts;
booker t. washington high school;

references.

booker t. washington's west virginia boyhood;
;
up from slavery, project gutenberg edition;
from slavery, electronic edition;
booker t. washington's 1909 tour of virginia on the newly completed virginian railway;
dr. booker t. washington papers - comments about henry rogers ;
national park service booker t. washington birthplace;
legends of tuskegee;
 booker t. washington's gravesite;
---

external links.
the booker t. washington papers digital archive, university of illinois press searchable index to complete annotated text of all important letters to and from washington and all his writings.







 















</doc>
<doc id="185205" title="c. f. martin & company" nonfiltered="411" processed="403" dbindex="414">


c.f. martin & company (martin) is a us guitar manufacturer that was established in 1833 by christian frederick martin.  martin is renowned for its high quality acoustic guitars, and is arguably the world's pre-eminent mass manufacturer of flattop acoustics with models that retail for thousands of dollars and vintage instruments that often fetch six figures at resale. the company also made several models of electric guitars and electric basses. 




company history. 
(link to cf martin's own written history: http://www.martinguitar.com/history/)

the company has been run by the martin family for all of its history; its current chairman and ceo, c.f. 'chris' martin iv, is the great-great-great-grandson of the founder.  many characteristic features of the modern flatop steel strung acoustic guitar were first introduced by the firm. some influential creations of the company include the dreadnought body style and scalloped x bracing. 

the company's headquarters and primary factory are in nazareth, pennsylvania, located in the lehigh valley region of the state.

 founder .
born in 1796 in markneukirchen, germany, c.f. martin came from a long line of cabinet makers and woodworkers.  by the age of 15 he was an apprentice to johan stauffer, a well-known guitar maker in vienna, austria.  after completing his training, martin returned to his hometown and opened his own guitar-making shop.  shortly after opening he became embroiled in a controversy between two guilds.

at the time european craftsmen operated under the guild system.  the guitar (in its modern form) was a relatively recent instrument, and most guitar makers were members of the cabinet makers guild.  the violin makers guild began to claim exclusive rights to manufacture musical instruments.  although the cabinet makers successfully defended their rights to build guitars, martin decided that the guild system was too restrictive, and in 1833 he moved to new york city.  obviously uncomfortable with the pace and style of big-city life, by 1838 he had moved his operation to nazareth, pa.

 company .
in the 1850's the martin company developed one of its best technological innovations for the guitar, the x bracing system on the n20. the musical and structural integrity of an acoustic guitar is a balance between the need to allow the soundboard of the guitar to resonate freely for acoustic purposes versus the compensation needed for maintaining structural integrity over the long term. by gluing struts of wood to the underside of the top of the guitar in a modified x brace pattern, martin invented a design that successfully met these competing demands: the compromise being pleasing to the ear of players and listeners as well as the demands of time, with instruments of 100+ years of age still being eminently playable.

the growing popularity of the guitar in the early 1900s, fueled by the growing popularity of folk music and country and western music, led to a demand for louder and more percussive guitars.  this led to many companies beginning to string their guitars with metal instead of catgut.  these became known as steel-string guitars, and martin began concentrating on this type of guitar by 1921.

the company's reputation and production continued to grow.  forays into mandolin making in the late 1890s and ukulele making in the 1920s greatly contributed to their expansion, and by 1928 they were making over 5000 instruments per year.  
remaining a family-owned business, the company employed a relatively small number of highly-trained craftsmen making instruments primarily by hand.  this limited production capacity, and by the early 1960s martin guitars were back-ordered by as long as three years.  in 1964 they opened a new plant which is still the primary martin production facility.

 innovations .
the great depression had a drastic effect on sales, and martin came up with two further innovations in an attempt to regain business.

one of these was the 14-fret neck, which allowed a greater range of notes, and which was meant to appeal to banjo players.  most guitars at the time had only 12 frets where the neck joins the body.  this idea became so popular that martin made the 14-fret neck standard on all of its guitars, and the rest of the guitar industry soon followed.

the second innovation was the dreadnought guitar.  originally devised in 1916 as a collaboration between martin and a prominent retailer, the dreadnought body style was larger and deeper than most guitars. this led to its name; at about the same time the british navy shocked the world by launching a battleship that was considerably larger than any in service.  from the idea that a ship that big would have to fear nothing, it was christened "hms dreadnought."  martin recognized a perfect marketing tie-in when they saw one, and borrowed the name for their new, large guitar. the greater volume and louder bass produced by this expansion in size was intended to make the guitar more useful as an accompaniment instrument for singers.  poorly received at the time of its introduction, when martin reintroduced the style in 1931 it quickly became their best-selling guitar.  again, the rest of the industry soon followed, and today the "dreadnought" size and shape is considered one of the "standard" acoustic guitar shapes.

 the 1960s .
during the late 1960s, martin manufactured hollow-body electric guitars similar to those manufactured by gretsch. 
martin's electric guitars were not popular and the company has since continued to concentrate on the manufacture of a wide range of high quality acoustics. they also brought back the famous d-45 in 1968.

 recent events .

in 1979 martin opened its "custom shop" division. in 1990 martin built its 500,000th guitar, and in 2004 they built their millionth guitar.

steel string guitar problems.

a steel-string guitar tuned to concert pitch can put tension of 180 pounds force (800 n) on the top of the guitar. the x brace system has been shown to be an efficient technique for preventing the top of the guitar from warping under this force.  the braces are generally carved; being scalloped and tuned in order to aid in the resonance and integrity of the guitar top, such capability being performed by skilled artisans and not readily reproducible by machine.  this work is an important factor in determining the timbre or "tone" of the guitar, and a major determinant in the observation that rarely do two guitars ever sound alike even though they are ostensibly identical in construction.

models.
 six-string guitars .

for many years, martin has used a model-labeling system that consists of an initial letter or a number or series of zeros that specifies the body size and type (5 being the smallest and 0000, also called m on some models, being the largest - though not as large as the dreadnaught - d - or jumbo -j) followed by a number that designates the guitar's ornamentation and style, including the species of wood from which the guitar is constructed.  generally, the higher the number, the higher the level of ornamentation.  additional letters or numbers added to this basic system are used to designate special features (such as a built-in pickup or a cutaway).

martin also periodically offers special models.  many of these have a limited production run, or begin as a limited-production guitar that sells well enough to become regularly produced.  many of these special models are designed with, endorsed by, and named after well-known guitarists such as eric clapton, merle haggard, stephen stills, paul simon, arlo guthrie, johnny cash, neil young and many others. in 2002, martin launched its "women in music" series with the joan baez signature guitar, a replica of the 0-45 with which baez began her career.

as of 2005, martin offers over 180 different guitars.  some of the more notable models are:
000-1:  slightly smaller in all dimensions than a "dreadnought" guitar (the "standard" acoustic guitar), solid sitka spruce top, solid mahogany back, laminated mahogany sides, tortoiseshell binding, rosewood fingerboard.
000-28ec and 000-28ecb: two of the five "eric clapton" models.  same size as the above guitar, constructed with higher-quality woods (especially the more expensive 000-28ecb constructed from the extremely rare brazilian species of rosewood, hence the "b"), a different shape to the neck, and greater ornamentation around the edge of the body. ;



the 000-28ec (bottom left photograph) is one of martin's most popular guitars; unlike the bigger dreadnoughts, the 000-28ec is nearer to the size of a spanish guitar - a slimmer body and wider fretboard.
d-1:  dreadnought version of the "000-1".
d-18: dreadnought guitar, solid sitka spruce top, solid mahogany back and sides.
d-28: dreadnought guitar, solid sitka spruce top, solid east indian rosewood (brazilian rosewood before 1969) back and sides, ebony fingerboard, black and white binding and ornamentation with 5/16" non-scalloped braces. ;
the hd-28 (right photograph) replicates pre-1947 "'bone" d-28s with herringbone purfling (then manufactured only in pre-war germany ) and scalloped braces.  it is an extremely popular guitar with a full sound, good balance between bass and treble.';
hd-35:similar material and style to the hd-28, but has a distinctive 3 piece solid east indian rosewood back and 1/4" scalloped braces. ;
d-45: similar to the "d-28" with much greater and more complex ornamentation, including abalone and mother-of-pearlshell inlays. also comes in a vintage version d-45v and a d-45 koa made with solid highly flamed koa.
j-40: a "jumbo" sized guitar, slightly larger than a dreadnought but not as deep.  woods similar to the "d-28" and ornamentation slightly less ornate that the 45 level.
om-28 - similar to the 000-28 model in body size and ornamentation, except with a slightly longer scale. also known as the "orchestra" model. ;
om-42ps - paul simon's signature acoustic model, manufactured in the 1997 model year,  is based on the om-28, but with fancier ornamentation and alterations specifically requested by paul simon himself. from the original planned run of around five hundred, only two hundred and twenty three were made, making these a collector's item. the om-42 is the nearest in the current range.  ;
backpacker: a very small guitar with a body shaped like an elongated triangle, designed to be very portable and inexpensive while still being constructed of quality woods.
16-series: style 16 guitars were first introduced in 1961. later they were the first production martins to utilize sustainable, native woods such as ash and walnut, as well as the first to implement hybrid a-frame "x" bracing. today these models use solid woods such as mahogany, east indian rosewood, koa, sapele and maple. models include: dc-16re aura, omc-16e koa, d-16 gt and 000c-16rgte aura.
15 series: constructed of solid all mahogany woods, featuring herringbone rosette, satin finish and a-frame "x" bracing. models include d-15 and omc-15e. also acoustic bass guitar bc-15e.
road series: designed for extra durability, constructed of laminated 3-ply mahogany sides and solid spruce top. also features specially designed top braces, shaped back braces and beveled rear block. models include the dm.
x-series: back and sides constructed from compressed wood fibers (high-pressure laminate or "hlp") and solid sitka spruce or hlp top. due to this construction these guitars are more environmentally friendly. models include, dx1, dx1-r, dxm, dcx1e and 000cxe black.

 bass guitars.
eb 18.


the eb-18 was the first electric bass the martin company produced in 1979. previously they had only produced acoustic bass guitars.

the general features of the eb-18 are:

scale length 34". ;
brass nut, ;
badass bridge, ;
single dimarzio humbucking pickup, ;
through piece solid construction of hard maple and walnut (body wings are glued on to central core), rosewood fretboard. ;
schaller bm series open tuning heads m/c heads with a gear ratio of 1:20. some m/c heads have c.f. martin stamped on them but look very similar to schaller heads. ;
four figure serial number printed on the back (where the 'neck' enters the 'body'). ;
the headstock has the c.f. martin logo printed on the front. the name c.f.martin and co. is printed on the back.

 pickup .

the pickup is a dimarzio dp120 (model 1) dual pole type with a multicore screened lead. this contains red, white, black and green wires as well as an uninsulated ground wire.

 controls .

the eb-18 is provided with a single volume control, one tone control, and a switch for altering the pickup wiring.  the switch alters the tone from a bright to a more bassy sound by cutting one pickup coil out of the circuit. 

the tone control is comprised of a 0.1- microfarad capacitor in series with the variable resistor that is adjusted by the control knob. this network is placed directly from the red pickup lead to ground. the volume control is a simple potentiometer wired between the red pickup lead and ground with the wiper being fed to the output jack.

the control compartment is covered on the rear surface of the body by a polished brass plate. the interior of the compartment is coated with a light colored conductive paint to act as a screen against unwanted pickup such as mains hum.

 flight case  .


the eb-18 was supplied with a quality hard flight case. the eb-18 body fits into the shaped recess and the case takes account of the oddly shaped 'lizard'-looking head and large tuning lugs. there is a pair of compartments inside for cables and other items. the inside is lined with a soft, burnt orange color, fur-like material. the case is closed with four toggle latches and has a centrally placed carrying handle.


popularity.
the eb-18 was not all that popular among bass players. the next model, the eb 28, was more popular.
  
see also: e 18 series guitars  

 eb 28 bass .

bibliography.

 
 
 

external links.

company website;
2006 christian f. martin iv interview;
2006 dick boak interview - boak is martin guitars director of artist and limited editions;
early publicity information;
the 'umgf' martin aficionados unofficial website;
vintage guitars info for pre-1969 c. f. martin guitars;













</doc>
<doc id="1082559" title="pan-african parliament" nonfiltered="412" processed="404" dbindex="415">

the pan-african parliament, also known as the african parliament, is the legislative body of the african union. the african parliament held its inaugural session in march 2004. at present it exercises oversight, and has advisory and consultative powers, which will last for the first five years of its existence, after that time period it will exercise full legislative powers. its 265 parliamentary representatives are elected by the legislatures of the 53 au states rather than being directly elected in their own capacity. initially the seat of the pan african parliament was in addis ababa, ethiopia but it was later moved to midrand, south africa. additionally, ten permanent committees were created dealing with different sectors of life in africa.

the current president of the parliament is gertrude mongella from ukerewe, tanzania.

the parliament also has four vice-presidents:
 southern africa. f. jose dias van-du nem from angola. ;
 north africa. mohammed lutfi farhat from libya. ;
 central africa. loum n. neloumsei elise from chad. ;
 west africa. theophile nata from benin. ;

these officials are the composition of the bureau of the pan-african parliament. 

the parliament is assisted by the secretariat of the pan-african parliament.

objectives of parliament.
 begin to implement the policies and objectives of the african union.
 cultivate human rights and democracy in africa.
 make sure member states adhere to good governance, transparency and accountability.
 let the peoples of africa know what the objectives and policies of the african union are so that they might be able to integrate themselves contentally while still working within the framework of the au.
 engender peace, security and stability on the continent.
 promote self-reliance and economic recovery so as to lead to a  more prosperous future for the peoples of africa. ;
 engender cooperation and development in africa.
 strengthen a sense of solidarity and build common destiny among the peoples of africa.
 create cooperation among regional economic communities and their members in parliament.

powers of parliament. 
 examine, discuss or express an opinion on any matter, either on its own initiative or at the request of the assembly or other policy organs and make any recommendations it may deem fit relating to, inter alia, matters pertaining to respect of human rights, the consolidation of democratic institutions and the culture of democracy, as well as the promotion good governance and the rule of law. ;
 discuss its budget and the budget of the community and make recommedations theron prior to its approval by the assembly of the african union.
 work towards the harmonisation or co-ordination of the laws of the member state.
 make recommendations aimed at contributing to the attainment of the objectives of the oau/aec and draw attention to the challenges facing the integration process in africa as well as the strategies for dealing with them.
 request officials of the oau/aec to attend its sessions, produce documents or assist in the discharge of its duties.
 promote the programmes and objectives of the oau/aec, in the constituencies of the member states.
 promote the co-ordination and harmonization of policies, measures, programmes and activities of the regional economic communities and the parliamentary fora of africa.
 adopt its rules of procedure, elect its own president and propose to the council and the assembly the size and nature of the support staff of the pan-african parliament.
 perform such other functions as it deems appropriate to achieve the objectives set out in article 3 of the protocol. ;

in one of its first actions the pan african parliament agreed to send a fact-finding mission to the darfur region of sudan.

see also.
list of members of the pan-african parliament;

external links.
 pan-african parliament website;















</doc>
<doc id="1929812" title="kabwe" nonfiltered="413" processed="405" dbindex="416">

kabwe is the capital of the zambian central province. it was named broken hill until 1966, after the broken hill in australia. this small town, lies by the railroad line lusaka-ndola. the city has an estimated 210,000 inhabitants. in the city were lead, zinc, cadmium, vanadium and manganese mining facilities.  kabwe's main industry was historically zinc, lead and silver mining, although these metals are now only extracted from old dumps. prior to the closure of the mine, the town's resources included hydro-electric power from the mulingushi and mita hills dams. the town is known for its football club, kabwe warriors. kabwe warriors are one of the top 3 teams in the country.

this town is famous for being the 'birth town of democracy" in zambia. the first political party, unip, was formed here, which was the driving force (along with the anc) to gain independence from britain.

the town lies on the great north road and the railway from lusaka to kitwe.  it is known for the homo heidelbergensis (rhodesian man) remains found in the town.  kabwe is also home to a golf course and lies on the kitwe to livingstone via lusaka railway.

health issue.

a study by the blacksmith institute found kabwe to be one of the ten worst polluted places in the world due mostly to heavy metal (mostly zinc and lead)tailings making their way into the local water supply .













</doc>
<doc id="1205266" title="zx1" nonfiltered="414" processed="406" dbindex="417">


the zx1 chipset is an itanium 2 chipset from hewlett packard used in some of the hp integrity servers and workstations.
it supports machines with up to 4 cpus (compare to sx1000).
it includes 3 distinct asics; a memory and i/o controller, a scalable memory adapter and an i/o adapter.

the memory and i/o controller can be attached directly to up to 12 ddr sdram slots.
if more slots than this are needed, two scalable memory adapters can be attached instead, allowing up to 48 memory slots.
the chipset supports dimm sizes up to 4gb, theoretically allowing a machine to support up to 192gb of ram, although the largest currently supported configuration is 128gb.

the i/o adapter is capable of operating in pci, pci-x or agp mode.  there may be up to 8 i/o adapters attached to the memory and i/o controller.  

the mako pa-risc processor uses the same bus as the itanium 2 processors, allowing hp to also use this chipset for the hp 9000 servers.

the i/o adapter was upgraded to handle agp-8x for the c8000 workstation.

external links.
zx1 at hp;



</doc>
<doc id="110643" title="swan valley, idaho" nonfiltered="415" processed="407" dbindex="418">
swan valley is a city in bonneville county, idaho, united states. the population was 213 at the 2000 census.

geography.

swan valley is located at  (43.453741, -111.351090).

according to the united states census bureau, the city has a total area of 26.7 km\b2 (10.3 mi\b2).  26.6 km\b2 (10.3 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.1 km\b2 (0.04 mi\b2) of it (0.29%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 213 people, 79 households, and 57 families residing in the city.  the population density was 8.0/km\b2 (20.7/mi\b2).  there were 117 housing units at an average density of 4.4/km\b2 (11.4/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the city was 91.08% white, 0.47% native american, 0.47% asian, 1.41% from other races, and 6.57% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 2.35% of the population.

there were 79 households out of which 26.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 69.6% were married couples living together, 1.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 26.6% were non-families. 19.0% of all households were made up of individuals and 11.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.70 and the average family size was 3.16.

in the city the population was spread out with 25.8% under the age of 18, 4.2% from 18 to 24, 23.5% from 25 to 44, 27.7% from 45 to 64, and 18.8% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 40 years. for every 100 females there were 97.2 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 113.5 males.

the median income for a household in the city was $37,083, and the median income for a family was $41,071. males had a median income of $37,083 versus $17,813 for females. the per capita income for the city was $18,527.  about 3.8% of families and 9.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 14.3% of those under the age of eighteen and 5.7% of those sixty five or over.

trivia.
the former mayor of swan valley, tom walsh, was hired by the nfl's oakland raiders american football team to be their offensive coordinator in february, 2006. he was previously the offensive coordinator of the organization in the early 1990s.

external links.







</doc>
<doc id="3132572" title="access 31" nonfiltered="416" processed="408" dbindex="419">

access 31 is a free-to-air community television station based in perth, australia broadcasting on uhf 31 from the abc's television mast at bickley in the perth hills. it is also available at certain times on westlink, which is broadcast on transmitters in albany and bunbury, and via optus aurora throughout australia. the station started broadcasting on 18 june 1999, and received a permanent broadcasting licence in 2002.

access 31 complements existing television services in the state with an emphasis on local programming. however, it has also been able to compete favorably against other television networks, drawing in a viewing audience in excess of 800,000 different people per month according to the oztam television ratings research firm.

programming.
access 31 broadcasts a number of popular local programs including wake up perth, a breakfast show broadcast live daily, wafl on, which focuses on the west australian football league, antics tv, a youth-orientated magazine show and the couch, a chat show that features live performances from up and coming musicians. the station also carries a number of programs originally developed at other channel 31 stations in other states.

access 31 also broadcasts old movies, classic television shows and programming and current news bulletins sourced from deutsche welle, voice of america and bbc world.

see also.
channel 31;
list of australian television channels;

external links.
access 31 homepage;
wake up perth homepage;









</doc>
<doc id="6508908" title="eric black" nonfiltered="417" processed="409" dbindex="420">
eric black (born 1 october, 1963 in bellshill, lanarkshire) is a former professional football player who played for aberdeen and metz. he played in attack. he won 2 international caps for scotland.

he was involved in possibly the best era ever for aberdeen who, under the management of sir alex ferguson, won the cup winners' cup in 1983 with a 2-1 win over real madrid in which the then 19 year old black scored the first goal. black's main asset was his balletic heading ability and scoring goals.  he made 180 appearances (30 as substitute) and 70 goals for aberdeen between 1981 and 1986 before joining metz in france.

after only a few season's with metz, black was forced to retire prematurely from the game due to a chronic back problem.

since then he has coached and managed most notably as assistant manager at celtic and manager at coventry city and motherwell. oddly, black was sacked from coventry on the back of a 5-2 win against gillingham for 'being inconsistant'.

he is currently assistant to steve bruce at birmingham city.





















</doc>
<doc id="3990273" title="castle bromwich rural district" nonfiltered="418" processed="410" dbindex="421">
castle bromwich was a rural district in warwickshire, england from 1894 to 1912.

it was created by the local government act 1894 based on the aston rural sanitary district.  it consisted of the parishes of castle bromwich, curdworth, minworth, water orton and wishaw.  the district was abolished in 1912, and the parishes added to the meriden rural district.

references.
http://www.visionofbritain.org.uk/relationships.jsp?u_id=10106631;



</doc>
<doc id="573489" title="c3 carbon fixation" nonfiltered="419" processed="411" dbindex="422">

c3 carbon fixation is a metabolic pathway for carbon fixation in photosynthesis.  this process converts carbon dioxide and ribulose bisphosphate (rubp, a 5-carbon sugar) into 3-phosphoglycerate through the following reaction:

6 co2 + 6 rubp   12 3-phosphoglycerate;

this reaction occurs in all plants as the first step of the calvin cycle.  in c4 plants, carbon dioxide is drawn out of malate and into this reaction rather than directly from the air.

plants that survive solely on c3 fixation (c3 plants) tend to thrive in areas where sunlight intensity is moderate, temperatures are moderate, carbon dioxide concentrations are around 200 ppm or higher, and ground water is plentiful. the c3 plants, originating during mesozoic and paleozoic era, predate the c4 plants and still represent approximately 95% of earth's plant biomass. 

c3 plants must be in areas with high concentrations of carbon dioxide because rubisco often incorporates an oxygen molecule into the rubp, instead of a carbon dioxide molecule. this breaks the rubp into a three-carbon sugar that can remain in the calvin cycle, and two molecules of glycolate, which is oxidized into carbon dioxide, wasting the cell's energy. high concentrations of carbon dioxide lowers the chance that rubisco incorporates an oxygen molecule. c4 and cam plants have adaptations that allow it survive in areas where the plant cannot take in a lot of carbon dioxide.

the isotopic signature of c3 plants shows higher degree of 13c depletion than the c4 plants.

see also.
c4 carbon fixation;
cam photosynthesis;










</doc>
<doc id="188461" title="jing ke" nonfiltered="420" processed="412" dbindex="423">
jing ke () was a guest residing in the estates of dan, crown prince of yan and renowned for his failed assassination of the chinese emperor qin shi huang who reigned from 221 bc to 210 bc. his story is told in the chapter entitled biography of the assassins (    ) in sima qian's records of the grand historian, or shiji.

jing ke was introduced by tian guang to dan the crown prince of yan. jing ke was originally from wei ( , not  ), which he left because he was not being recognised by the king of wei. after travelling around, he arrived at yan and made friends with gao jianli and a butcher of dogs. together they passed the days drinking and having fun.

dan was a friend of zheng (who later became qin shi huang) when they were both hostages in the state of zhao. when dan escaped from zhao back to yan, qin's army moved towards the border with yan. yan's army was too weak to fight off the army of qin.  instead of going to battle, dan consulted with tian guang on a course of action, and decided to assassinate the king of qin. tian guang, who was a friend of jing ke, recommended him to dan to carry out the assassination.

a qin army general (fan yu qi), who had lost favor with the king of qin, was a guest at dan's residence at that time. having learned of his whereabouts, jing ke persuaded the general to commit suicide, as the king of qin wanted his head. together with the head and a map of yan, jing ke had enough reasons to approach the king of qin. 

off onto his mission, at the river of yi (the border of zhao), jing ke reportedly shouted out this impromptu poem after a cup of wine with friends: "piercing wind, freezing river of yi. the hero fords,
and he never returns!" (                !) this heroism, which reflects the general ideology of the society at that time, is recorded in shiji.

armed with a dagger covered with poison hidden in the case holding the map, jing ke and qin wu yang represented yan and met with the king of qin. qin wu yang was carrying the map case while jing ke was holding the head of general fan. qin wu yang became nervous and his face turned white. seizing his chance, jing ke took the map case from qin wu yang.  while presenting the map to the king of qin, he seized the dagger and plunged it towards the king of qin while grasping his sleeve. 

jing ke missed and in the struggle, the sleeve was torn off and the king of qin escaped. as jing ke chased the king around the audience hall, the king of qin tried to pull out his sword which was slung at his side; however this was a ceremonial weapon which had been made especially long to impress onlookers and the king was unable to unsheathe it. after being advised by a court official, who mimed the slinging of the sword across the back and the drawing of it across the shoulder, the king of qin finally managed to draw his sword and stabbed jing ke with it eight times. jing ke, knowing that his chance was slipping away, threw the dagger at the king but missed. finally guards, which out of the king's paranoia over having armed men in his presence had been posted at a great distance, arrived and killed the assassin. 

jing ke in fiction.

the chinese film the emperor and the assassin (1999), featuring gong li and others, was based on these events. jing ke does not appear in the film hero, also about the attempted assassination of qin shi huang, although the events of that movie are loosely based on his story.

a highly fictionalized version of jing ke appeared in the film , played by wuxia actor donnie yen. in the film, jing ke was, like the other principal characters in the film, an immortal warrior.

 external links .
 ;










</doc>
<doc id="4263333" title="fishbone, wishbone, funnybone" nonfiltered="421" processed="413" dbindex="424">
fishbone, wishbone, funnybone is an album by massachusetts folk musician zo\eb lewis, released in 2001.  



 track listing .
bastille day;
fortune cookie;
when the developers came to tea;
lullaby on 24th and mission;
going song;
sarcophagi;
jam;
funnybone;
jacques cousteau;
write me a letter;
snail road;
miss. jones;
squid;






</doc>
<doc id="3682010" title="mr. smoothie" nonfiltered="422" processed="414" dbindex="425">

mr. smoothie is a franchisor of juice and smoothie bars primarily in the eastern united states, with locations in new york, massachusetts, pennsylvania, new jersey, maryland, virginia, kentucky, and north carolina.

 see also .
 food court;

 external links .
 mr. smoothie;








</doc>
<doc id="1972693" title="quantization (linguistics)" nonfiltered="423" processed="415" dbindex="426">
in linguistics, a quantized expression is such that, whenever it is true of some entity,  it is not true of any proper subparts of that entity. example: if something is an "apple", then no proper subpart of that thing is an "apple". if something is "water", then many of its subparts will also be "water". hence, "apple" is quantized, while "water" is not. quantization has proven relevant to the proper characterization of grammatical telicity (roughly, sentences that present events as bounded/unbounded in time) and the mass/count distinction for nouns. the notion was first applied to linguistic semantics by the logician manfred krifka.


formally, a quantization predicate qua can be defined as follows, where  is the universe of discourse, and  is a variable over sets, and  is a mereological part structure on  with  the mereological part-of relation.  





references.

krifka, manfred 1989. nominal reference, temporal constitution and quantification in event semantics.
in renate bartsch, johan van benthem and peter van emde boas (eds.), semantics and
contextual expressions 75-115. dordrecht: foris.





</doc>
<doc id="3037192" title="943 begonia" nonfiltered="424" processed="416" dbindex="427">

943 begonia



943 begonia is a minor planet orbiting the sun.

external links.
 discovery circumstances: numbered minor planets;














</doc>
<doc id="1296167" title="executive order 13224" nonfiltered="425" processed="417" dbindex="428">
executive order 13224 is an executive order signed into law by u.s. president george w. bush on september 23, 2001 as a response to the september 11, 2001 attacks.  it describes powers designed to disrupt the financial activities of named terrorist organisations.



external links.
 executive order 13224, from the  u.s. department of state website;
 executive order on terrorist financing: blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism, white house, september 2001;




</doc>
<doc id="1953928" title="global information grid" nonfiltered="426" processed="418" dbindex="429">


the global information grid (gig) is an all-encompassing communications project of the united states department of defense. it is defined as the globally interconnected, end-to-end set of information capabilities,
associated processes, and personnel for collecting, processing, storing, disseminating, and managing information on demand to warfighters, policymakers, and support personnel. the gig includes all owned and leased communications and computing systems and services, software (including applications), system data, security services, and other associated services necessary to achieve information superiority for the united states military. it is the physical manifestation of the network-centric warfare doctrine. the gig was envisioned by the department of defense chief information officer on september 22, 1999 and was officially mandated by an overarching directive from the deputy secretary of defense on september 19, 2002. noteworthy progress has been made since then.

although the lofty objective of the global information grid has not yet been realized, computer-enabled communication between soldiers and commanders in the battlefield have been successful, most notably during the 2003 invasion of iraq. this ability is considered an early gig component.

motivation.


the network-centric warfare (ncw) doctrine represents a fundamental shift in military culture, away from powerful compartmentalized war machines and toward interconnected units operating cohesively. the tenets of ncw, found in the dod ncw report to the congress, are:
1) a robustly networked force improves information sharing, 2) information sharing enhances the quality of information and shared situational awareness, 3) shared situational awareness enables collaboration and self-synchronization and enhances sustainability and speed of command, and 4) these, in turn, dramatically increase mission effectiveness. 


at the enterprise level, forging new paths that components of the military communicate in will ease logistics burdens, improve communication and combat effectiveness of the warfighter, decrease instances of confusion-related fratricide, accelerate the trend in minimizing collateral damage, and hasten the flow of business.

for the warfighter, situational awareness would be improved tremendously by linking what he sees with what an overhead satellite sees. the fog of war would be lifted by seamless communication between unit members, offsite detection devices, and commanders operating behind the line.

improved coordination may also assist in delivering appropriate firepower or other tangible assets to first responders during domestic attacks and natural disasters worldwide.

architecture.
the assistant secretary of defense for networks and information integration (asd(nii)) as the chief information officer for dod is charged with ultimate responsibility for the global information grid. his or her authority extends to all phases of the gig design, from planning to development to implementation to maintenance.

the defense information systems agency (disa) has been charged by the cio with heading the gig project. disa has classified the gig as a data computing grid and has designed an intricate foundation architecture called gig enterprise services (es). gig es establishes a collection of core services that provides the foundation for lower-level gig components all the way down to the individual soldier. gig es enables distributed storage, information assurance (security), collaboration, messaging, mediation, service management, and interfaces for node to client connectivity.

the gig, when completed, would connect all technology within the department of defense, much like the internet. individual gig components resemble client computers and gig es core services can be compared to the services offered from the data centers of internet service providers and hosting companies.

implementation.
as of 2004, there are nine functional gig es core services. these are:
storage;
messaging;
enterprise service management;
discovery;
mediation;
information assurance;
application hosting;
user assistant;
collaboration;

the 2002 dod directive effectively redesignates all existing computer networks, technology services, and data applications within the department as part of the gig. agencies have evolved independent efforts to bring their services into compliance with gig es architecture. one such infrastructure to join the gig is the nmci network.

currently, over 95% of transmission service over the gig is mediated by civilian companies, and many dod agencies have officially outsourced their gig management capabilities to civilian authorities. there is no set timeline for the completion of the global information grid, although disa has projected gig es completion to be sometime in 2005.

 comments, issues, and caveats .

the dod has made significant progress toward adopting net-centric operations in the field by creatively employing its existing computer network capability.  further, dod recognizes the need to adopt net-centric engineering and acquisition practices similar to those employed by the best practioners of e-business to rapidly and continuously roll out improvememts to the gig.  however, the rapid, "flat", innovative, e-business model contrasts starkly with dod's slow, hierarchal, conservative, acquisition model designed to field large, specialized, weapons, platforms and sensor. dod has made relatively little progress on this second front.  

see also.
department of defense architecture framework;
dod joint technical framework;
dod business enterprise architecture;
global information grid-bandwidth expansion initiative;
global information grid-enterprise services initiative;
dod directive 8100.1 "global information grid - overarching policy", september 2002;
joint task force-global network operations;

external links.
defense information systems agency website;
department of defense;
2002 directive;
newsletter on the gig;
nsa on gig information assurance;
gig bandwidth expansion;







</doc>
<doc id="2317082" title="human toilet" nonfiltered="427" processed="419" dbindex="430">

human toilet is the practice of defecating and/or urinating on someone as a bdsm practice, often on that person's face or in that person's mouth to simulate a toilet.  this may or may not include some consumption of the material, consumption of which may carry health risks .

specific human toilet furniture exists for use in the act. human toilet furniture has some resemblance to smotherboxes and other queening stools used in face sitting. human toilet furniture has often a different look. a standard toilet seat may be used, as a psychological hint for the intended use. while human toilet furniture with a low upper deck are very close to queening stools, the height of the deck varies. thus body parts of human toilet furniture users may not even touch, while in case of queening stools such physical connection is a requisite. 

human toilet is usually associated with femdom that involves the male toilet slaves serving the dominant female. a male slave is made immobile and forced to drink the dominant female's urine or eat the dominant female's feces.  

a single male slave may serve several female dominants and forced to survive on nothing except consuming female bodily waste. the male slave will be strapped down permanently as a toilet and will be forced to eat whatever comes out of the female(s) anus, including diarrhea. in extreme cases where the female dominant wishes to add misery to the male slave, she will force him to eat her vomit.

males who fantasize about becoming a toilet for females find it sexually stimulating because of the fact that the male submissive is being humiliated and is unable to have sex with the dominant female though he secretly wishes to.

references.


see also.
human toilet news and musings from weil am rhein - german town on the basle border triangle;
urolagnia;
coprophilia;
the urineists practitioners of urophagia & urolagnia (a "google" beta group) ;



</doc>
<doc id="5465254" title="carl nothnagel" nonfiltered="428" processed="420" dbindex="431">
carl wilhelm hermann nothnagel (september 28, 1841 - july 7, 1905) was a german internist, who is credited with describing in 1876 the irregular pulse associated with atrial fibrillation, which he called "delirium cordis".

from 1858 - 1863, nothnagel studied under ludwig traube (1818-1876) and rudolf virchow (1821-1902) at the friedrich wilhelms-institut in  berlin. after receiving his doctorate, part of his early career was spent as a military physician, including a stint in the franco-prussian war. from 1882 - 1905, he was a professor at the university clinic in vienna.

two eponyms that are associated with nothnagel:
 nothnagel's syndrome i: a rare condition characterised by pallor, blanching of the skin and narrowing of the blood vessels after being exposed to cold conditions.
 nothnagel's syndrome ii: oculomotor palsy and cerebellar ataxia caused by a lesion affecting the oculomotor nucleus and cerebellar peduncles (stalk-like band of neurons).


 see also .

 ernst remak;
 ottmar rosenbach;









</doc>
<doc id="752134" title="list of people by name: ant" nonfiltered="429" processed="421" dbindex="432">

 access to rest of list .


 people named ant .
ant, adam (born 1954), british musician;

 anta - ante .
antal, emese (born 1971), romania-born skater;
antel, franz (born 1913), austrian filmmaker;
anterus, pope (235-236);

 anth .
 antha - anthi .
anthan, george, journalist;
antheil, george (1900-1959), composer;
anthemius (ruled 467-472), roman emperor;
anthemius of tralles (died 534), architect;
anthikkad, sathyan;
anthimus i, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
anthimus ii, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
anthimus iii, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
anthimus iv, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
anthimus v, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
anthimus vi, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
anthimus vii, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;

 antho - anthu .
anthoff, gerd;
antholis, kary;
anthony (1572-1581), metropolitan of moscow;
anthony of saxony (1755-1836), king of saxony ;
anthony, david (born 1948), convicted murderer;
anthony, james (born 1955), canadian musician;
anthony, joseph (1912-1993), american stage director;
anthony, patricia;
anthony, piers (born 1934), american author;
anthony, ray (born 1922), american musician;
anthony, steve;
anthony, susan b. (1820-1906), american activist;
anthony, tessy;
anthony, tony;
anthony, tony;
anthony, trey;
anthuenis, aim\e9;

 anti - antk .
antin, steve (born 1961);
antinori, severino (born 1945), italian gynecologist & embryologist;
antinori, vincenzo (1792-1865), italian science administrator;
antiochus;
antipater (397-319 bc), macedonian soldier & courtier;
antipater of sidon (fl. c. 120 bce);
antipater of tarsus (fl. 100 bce), stoic philosopher;
antipater of thessalonica (fl. 11 bce), greek epigrammatist;
antipater of tyre (fl. 100 bce), stoic philosopher;
antipater the idumaean (fl. 50 bce), idumaean politician;
antiphanes (fl. 385 bce), greek playwright;
antiphilus of byzantium, greek epigrammatist;
antiphon (c. 480-411 bce), attic orator;
antiphon, athenian sophist;
antiphon, greek tragic poet;
antisthenes (c. 445 -360 bce), greek philosopher;
antisthenes of rhodes (fl. 150 bce), greek historian;
antkiewicz, aleksy (1923-2005), polish boxer;

 anto .
 antoi - antol .
antoinette, marie (1755-1793), austrian-born queen of france;
antoku, emperor, emperor of japan;
antolick, joe (1916-2002), american baseball player;

 anton - antoo .
ant\f3n, abel (born 1962), spanish runner;
anton, alan, canadian musician;
antonelli, laura (born 1941), italian actor;
antonescu, ion (1882-1946), romanian soldier & politician;
antonescu, mihai (1907-1946), romanian politician;
antoninus pius (86-161), roman emperor;
antoninus, brother (fl. mid-20th century), american poet;
antonio, luis (born c. 1966), american puerto rican fashion designer;
antonioni, michelangelo (born 1912), italian director;
antonov, alexei,  soviet soldier;
antonov, oleg (1906-1984), russian aircraft designer;
antonovsky, aaron (1923-1994), sociologist;
antonsen, atle (born 1969), norwegian comedian;
antony i, patriarch of constantinople;
antony i, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
antony ii, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
antony iii, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
antony iv, patriarch of constantinople;
antony iv, patriarch, patriarch of constantinople;
antony, a. k. (born 1940), indian politician;
antony, mark (c. 83 -30 bce), roman soldier & politician;
antoon, a. j. (1944-1992), director;

 antr - anty .
antrim, richard (1907-1969), american sailor;
antson, ants, estonian skater;
antunes, ant\f3nio lobo, novelist;
antuofermo, vito (born 1953), boxer;
antyllus (fl. 2nd century), greek physician;

</doc>
<doc id="131479" title="sheshequin township, pennsylvania" nonfiltered="430" processed="422" dbindex="433">

sheshequin township is a township in bradford county, pennsylvania, united states. the population was 1,300 at the 2000 census.

geography.
according to the united states census bureau, the township has a total area of 93.4 km\b2 (36.1 mi\b2).  91.5 km\b2 (35.3 mi\b2) of it is land and 1.9 km\b2 (0.8 mi\b2) of it (2.08%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census2 of 2000, there were 1,289 people, 483 households, and 371 families residing in the township.  the population density was 14.1/km\b2 (36.8/mi\b2).  there were 563 housing units at an average density of 6.2/km\b2 (15.1/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the township was 98.38% white, 0.23% african american, 0.23% native american, 0.10% asian, 0.08% from other races, and 1.00% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 0.08% of the population.

there were 483 households out of which 33.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 66.3% were married couples living together, 7.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 23.1% were non-families. 19.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 7.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.66 and the average family size was 3.03.

in the township the population was spread out with 21.2% under the age of 18, 6.1% from 18 to 24, 29.2% from 25 to 44, 25.1% from 45 to 64, and 12.5% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 38 years. for every 100 females there were 103.8 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 103.4 males.

the median income for a household in the township was $37,222, and the median income for a family was $42,500. males had a median income of $31,667 versus $22,065 for females. the per capita income for the township was $16,017.  about 8.0% of families and 11.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 18.1% of those under age 18 and 9.1% of those age 65 or over.






</doc>
<doc id="535190" title="newton aycliffe" nonfiltered="431" processed="423" dbindex="434">

newton aycliffe is a town in county durham, england. founded in 1947 under the new towns act of 1946, it is the oldest new town in the north of england. it has a population of nearly 30,000 people. it is the largest town within tony blair's constituency, sedgefield.

prior to the newtown development, aycliffe (originally 'acley') was the site of a saxon settlement. the name acley came from the saxon words: 'ac', meaning oak, and 'ley', meaning 'a clearing'. aycliffe was the location of a church synods in ad 782 and ad 789. in more recent times aycliffe was a key element in world war ii ammunitions manufacturing.  the marshy land was ideal cover against the luftwaffe as it was almost continually shrouded in fog and mist.  huge grass covered munitions factories were built and serviced by the nearby railway lines.  the factories were largely staffed by women (in their thousands); these ladies were dubbed the "aycliffe angels", who braved incredible dangers inside the factories.   the factories were eventually replaced by manufacturing buildings that became the industrial district of aycliffe.

famous businesses located in the town include flymo and 3m. up until 1998, fujitsu had a semiconductor plant situated on the newton aycliffe industrial estate, at which point it was closed with the loss of all 600 jobs.

its railway station lies on the original stockton and darlington railway. locomotion no 1 was placed on the lines at nearby aycliffe station in 1825. the name of the station was subsequently changed to heighington lane station, and is now heighington station.

 education .
schools in the area are

aycliffe village primary school;
byerley park primary school;
elmfield primary school;
greenfield school community and arts college;
heighington church of england primary school;
horndale infant school;
st francis church of england junior school;
st joseph's roman catholic voluntary aided primary school;
st mary's roman catholic voluntary aided primary school;
stephenson way primary school;
sugar hill primary school;
vane road primary school;
woodham burn infant school;
woodham burn junior school;
woodham community technology college - website;
(avenue comprehensive school closed 1992);



 external links .
 http://www.aycliffeangels.org.uk - a web site dedicated to the aycliffe angels can be found at ;
 http://www.great-aycliffe.gov.uk -  great aycliffe town council;
 http://www.acley.co.uk - archive website  about the township of great aycliffe which also includes the nearby aycliffe village.



</doc>
<doc id="2942173" title="saint-michel, pyr\e9n\e9es-atlantiques" nonfiltered="433" processed="424" dbindex="436">

saint-michel (basque: eiheralarre) is a small village and commune in the pyr\e9n\e9es-atlantiques d\e9partement of southwestern france. it is located in the nives river valley.

it is located in the former province of basse-navarre. it borders caro to the north, aincille and est\e9ren\e7uby to the east, uhart-cize and arn\e9guy to the west, and spain to the south.

saint-michel's mayor from 1995-2001 was pierre etcheverry, and from 2001-2008 is raymond minondo.

external links.
 eiheralarre in the bernardo estorn\e9s lasa - au\f1amendi encyclopedia (euskomedia fundazioa) (in spanish);
 syndicat mixte du contrat de rivi\e8re des nives (in french);














</doc>
<doc id="4792484" title="maxim rudometkin" nonfiltered="434" processed="425" dbindex="437">


maxim gavrilovich rudometkin (1818?)-(1877) is known to members of the molokan jumpers and leapers (c                    ) sect as the king of the holy seven spirits of god and leader of the new israelites.

the date of his birth is unknown but we can get from his writings is that he was born anywhere from 1808 (as one historian claims) to 1818. the earliest we know of him is in his birth place which is in the village of algasova near the city of morshank, in the province of tambov (caucasus). when he was eight years old his family left the orthodox faith and joined up with the molokan faith in the village of nikitino. again, the date is unknown because we do not know for sure what his exact birth date is. as he grew older he started to learn wagon wheel making, this was his trade during his stay there. soon he was married to a girl of the same faith by the name of maodrea matvevna and they had three son's by the name of ermalie, alexie and vassily. in 1848 he received the gifts of the holy spirit. soon after in a vision, in which the lord almighty and his son told him that he was to be appointed to govern gods people on earth during the 1000 years of paradise. soon after this (according to a russian historian) maxim and other people who were gathered for church all saw a vision. in which sun ray's came down from heaven and descended upon maxim and said that because he had fulfilled all of god's desires he would be given the new title of "king of spirits". and it was during this time that all who saw the vision were filled with the holy spirit and jumped and leaped like king david in the bible. according to certain files, in the year 1850 more than half of the trans-caucasus accepted maxim gavrilovich as "king of spirits". the authorities started to worry because the molokans were even starting to challenge the orthodox faith. like the inquisitions they decided to round up the ringleaders of the jumpers and leapers sect and send them to correction facilities. in september 1858 he was exiled to the solovetsky monastery for preaching against the orthodox church and the czar. he was then moved to the sudzal monastery prison where he remained for 9 years. it was there that some say he died and some say that he was taken up into heaven because he himself prophesied that he would never die. 
----

in these prisons or correction facilities he smuggled out pages of his writings with instructions to his followers, and his teachings, on pages of tea paper about 4x3 1/2 in size. these writings were then compiled in the early 20th century and published in a book called "spirit and life, book of the sun" (            ,             ) which is considered by most molokans to be holy.



</doc>
<doc id="8751235" title="coromandel valley, south australia" nonfiltered="435" processed="426" dbindex="438">
coromandel valley is a suburb in south australia.  it is part of the city of mitcham and the onkaparinga.



</doc>
<doc id="6126520" title="chris walker (rugby league footballer)" nonfiltered="436" processed="427" dbindex="439">


chris walker (born in brisbane, australia) is an australian rugby league footballer.  his favoured positions are wing and centre and he's well-known for his lightning speed.  he has played with 4 different nrl teams, and in august 2006 was dropped by melbourne storm. chris is the younger brother of fellow professional rugby league players shane walker and ben walker. over the years he has been involved in several high-profile incidents, including spending a night in a townsville police station and being ejected from a hotel. his long-time girlfriend was australian actress kate ritchie, however the couple broke up in august, 2006.

walker has played for the brisbane broncos, the melbourne storm, the south sydney rabbitohs and the sydney roosters, as well as queensland in all 6 matches in 2001 and 2002. 

in november, 2006 it was announced that chris will be given a trial with the gold coast titans. many believe he has been thrown a life line after being dumped by the melbourne storm and many fans are interested to see how he will fare.

 external links .
 state of origin offical website rugby league player stats;







</doc>
<doc id="1807298" title="petten nuclear reactor" nonfiltered="437" processed="428" dbindex="440">
the petten nuclear reactors are nuclear research reactors in petten, the netherlands.t here are two reactors on the premises of the petten research centre: a high flux reactor and a low flux reactor.

the high flux reactor (hfr).
the high flux reactor in petten has been in use since 1961. it's capacity was increased in steps to 45 mw (thermal) by 1970. the hfr is property of the european commission and operated by the nuclear research and consultancy group (nrg).

the life span of the current hfr will end around 2015. it has already been decided that a new hfr (pallas) will be constructed to start operating by this time.

the low flux reactor (lfr).
the low flux reactor has been in use since 1960. it has a capacity of 30 kw. the lfr is property of the nuclear research and consultancy group (nrg). the lfr is mainly used for the production of neutrons for biological and physical research. 

medical importance of petten.
apart from its function as a research centre, petten is also a large producer of radioactive material for the purpose of medical diagnosis and the treatment of cancer (radiopharmaceuticals). 60% of the european demand for medical isotopes is supplied by the nuclear facilities at petten. also at the high flux reactor, one of the neutron beam channels, which was originally installed for performing fundamental research, has been specially modified for the direct irradiation of patients. this allows use of neutrons for the treatment of tumors, after saturation of these tumors with a pharmaceutical containing boron. boron, when hit by a weak neutron beam, will locally emit radiation that will destroy the tumor. this technique is mainly suitable for the treatment of brain tumors.

safety issues.
in 2002, the high flux reactor was shut down for a few weeks because of two unrelated issues. there were indications of a weld defect in the reactor vessel and there were some concerns about the safety culture within the company. after completion of extensive research, and the announcement of a series of additional measures, the reactor was put back into use.

as of 2006 low-enriched uranium is used exclusively at the facilities in petten. as a result of political pressure from the united states and the international atomic energy agency (iaea), research reactors are no longer allowed to use highly enriched uranium because of its potential use for the production of nuclear weapons. 

sources.
this article is based on information from the websites of nrg and the energy research centre of the netherlands




</doc>
<doc id="5042239" title="other vessels in tugs" nonfiltered="438" processed="429" dbindex="441">
this article is a section of fictional character from the 1989 television series tugs, from the producers of thomas the tank engine and friends.
coast guard.

the coast guard is a fictional character from the 1989 television series tugs from the producers of thomas the tank engine and friends.

he is a small vessel who acts as customs officer for the port. he often stands at the entrance to the estuary ready to question and check incoming shipping before clearance. on other occasions he stands by and over-looks large-scale operations, such as demolition and quarry work. he also doubled as a 'one-man' police-force. despite his size, he has heavy influence and authority over the vessels of the port. he has made numerous cameo appearances, but had minor speaking roles in high winds and quarantine.

he is believed to be voiced by british actor lee cornes, who also voiced grampus and boomer in the series. on the buzz books, the coast guard was referred to as the customs launch and in salty's lighthouse the coast guard was called "cappy".

coast guard quote: "hey, you! you are within port limits. i'm coming aboard!" (high winds)

fultan ferry.

the fultan ferry is a paddle-driven ferry boat used for freighting vehicles and goods across the harbour. it appeared in various episodes, but was finally named in quarantine, when it was temporarily sunk in the middle of the port after hitting a fire barge towed by oj. it was later salvaged by mighty moe.

since tugs ceased production, the fultan ferry has had many cameos in thomas the tank engine and friends, if you look closely, in episodes that feature ports and other sea related sets, you can be sure the fultan ferry will be around somewhere and has a fultan ferry sign on it.

johnny cuba.

johnny cuba is a notorious and violent tramp steamer gangster. his strong accent and dialect indicate that he is from australia. he made his first and only appearance in high winds.

cuba had arrived at bigg city port to make plans with fellow criminal friends during a period of strong and troublesome tempest weather. he threatened zebedee and manipulated him into helping him into the port. 

cuba sent zebedee on an errand to steal a barge of coal, and threatened to sink him if he landed either of them in trouble. due to a feud between cuba and captain zero that occurred in the past, zebedee was placed in an awkward and dangerous situation, until hercules  discovered cuba's hide-out in an abandoned dock. zebedee struck up the courage to trap cuba and have him arrested, and was forgiven. despite cuba's claim that "they can't hold johnny cuba!", they did.

nothing to declare.
cuba made a second appearance in the buzz book "nothing to declare", in which he helps the navy by trapping a spy submarine and proves himself to have a good streak. these books are not necessarily considered canon by fans.

nantucket.
a dirty old tramp steamer and a notorious villain. made his first and only appearance in quarantine, in which he attempted to trick sunshine into taking him into port by pulling down the checkered quarantine flag. after his plan was foiled, he was sentenced by the coast guard to a further forty days in quarantine along with zorran. he speaks with a lancastrian accent, and is nicknamed "old dirt bucket" by the tugs.

krakatoa. 
the naval tramp steamer who made her first and only appearance in munitions. she was destroyed and sunk after a fire erupted on the dock in the middle of a loading operation that involved both fuel and munitions.

coast guard's messenger.

a small motor boat with a shrill whistle, he appeared only briefly in regatta to inform the star fleet of lillie lightship's predicament, having been sent by the coast guard to deliever the message. the same small vessel doubled as the 'mad' speed boat that caused the accident in quarantine. he was in this form before 4th of july, as he appears in the liner scene of warrior in sunshine. he is located beside the fire launch.

old rusty.

old rusty is possibly a naval tramp steamer, he made only a brief appearance in warrior, anchored out in the estuary. he said that he had been anchored there for two years.

the shrimpers.

the shrimpers appear in various episodes, they had a note-worthy role in ghosts, when a group of four or five were accidentally led into a mud-bank whilst following warrior back to port, using him as a guide through the fog.




</doc>
<doc id="5867204" title="william peel, 3rd earl peel" nonfiltered="439" processed="430" dbindex="442">
william james robert peel, 3rd earl peel, gcvo, pc, dl (born 3 october 1947) is a cross-bench (non-party) member of the house of lords and lord chamberlain of the royal household. 

the earl peel attended ampleforth college, and then went on to tours university in france and the royal agricultural college in cirencester. he married in 1973, veronica naomi timpson. they had two children, viscount clanfield (born 1976) and lady iona peel (born 1978). the marriage was dissolved in 1987.  he married, secondly, in 1989 the hon. charlotte clementine soames, daughter of lord soames and his wife, mary, daughter of sir winston churchill. they have one daughter, lady antonia peel (born 1991). 

lord peel was a member of the prince's council, part of the duchy of cornwall, from 1993 to 2006, and lord warden of the stannaries from 1994-2006. he was a member of the nature conservancy council, with english nature, from 1991 to 1996. he is president of the game conservancy trust and was president of the yorkshire wildlife trust from 1989 to 1996. lord peel was also on the yorkshire dales national park committee for six years. he is an elected member of the house of lords. 

in june 2006 it was announced that lord peel would succeed lord luce as lord chamberlain. on 11 october 2006, he kissed hands with the queen upon his appointment and was invested as a knight grand cross of the royal victorian order, and became chancellor of the order. on 14 november 2006, lord peel was sworn in as a member of the privy council.

external links.
appointment of lord peel as lord chamberlain;
dodonline biography;





















</doc>
<doc id="382402" title="wir danken dir, gott, wir danken dir" nonfiltered="440" processed="431" dbindex="443">
wir danken dir, gott, wir danken dir (we thank you, god, we thank you) is a cantata by johann sebastian bach. in wolfgang schmieder's catalogue of bach's works, it is bwv 29.

the piece was written for the occasion of the election of a new town council in leipzig in 1731 (the cantatas number 119, preise jerusalem, den herrn, and 120, gott, man lobet dich in der stille, were written for a similar occasion). it was first performed on august 27 of that year.

the instrumentation reflects the festive occasion for which it was written: soprano, alto, tenor and basso soloists, four-part choir, solo organ and an orchestra consisting of two oboes, three trumpets, timpani, violins, violas and basso continuo.

the piece is in eight movements:

sinfonia - an arrangement of the prelude from bach's e major partita for solo violin. a solo organ plays the original violin part, while the orchestra adds an accompaniment.
"wir danken dir, gott, wir danken dir" - a chorus sung and played by the whole ensemble. this was later adapted as the gratias and dona nobis of bach's mass in b minor. the text is from the 75th psalm.
"halleluja, st\e4rk und macht" ("halleluja, strength and might") - a tenor da capo aria, accompanied by a solo violin and continuo.
"gottlob! es geht uns wohl!" ("praise god! it is well for us!") - a recitative sung by the solo bass.
"gedenk an uns mit deiner liebe" ("consider us with your love") - an aria for the soprano in the rhythm of a siciliana, accompanied by oboe, strings and continuo.
"vergi\df es ferner nicht, mit deiner hand" ("do not forget later, with your hand") - a recitative sung by the alto with a final "amen" from the chorus.
"halleluja, st\e4rk und macht" ("halleluja, power and might") - a reprise of the first part of the tenor aria, but now with solo organ rather than violin, and sung by the alto.
"sei lob und preis mit ehren" ("glory and praise with honor be") - the fifth verse of johann gramann's chorale, "nun lob, mein seel, den herren" played and sung by the whole ensemble.

music files.



20th century adaptation.
the sinfonia movement experienced a period of crossover popularity in 1968 when wendy carlos created an exuberant rendition of it for electronic synthesizer (at the time a novelty) for the album switched-on bach.

see also.
list of cantatas by johann sebastian bach;

external links.
information from bach-cantatas.com;
german text with english translation;
programme notes by craig smith;




</doc>
<doc id="3155293" title="oculocephalic reflex" nonfiltered="441" processed="432" dbindex="444">
in medicine, the oculocephalic reflex, also doll's eye reflex, is an eye movement to maintain forward gaze in response to neck rotation.  it is considered a normal response.  

the name doll's eye reflex comes from the fact that many dolls with movable eyes exhibit the reflex.

it can be used to evaluate dizzy patients for vestibular pathologies and yields information similar to testing the vestibulo-ocular reflex.

in the setting of brain injury, an absent oculocephalic reflex carries a very poor prognosis.
 
physicians sometimes test for it when assessing whether a patient is brain dead.  in a dead person the eyes remain fixed relative to the head when the neck is rotated.  since the test involves rapid neck movement, it is contraindicated in patients with spinal cord injuries and suspected spinal cord injuries.  

see also.
brain death;

external link.
oculocephalic reflex - fpnotebook.com;

references.





</doc>
<doc id="1151548" title="richard crawshaw" nonfiltered="442" processed="433" dbindex="445">
richard crawshaw, baron crawshaw of aintree obe, known as dick crawshaw (september 25, 1917 july 16, 1986) was elected as a british labour party member of parliament in 1964 but left, or "defected" (as the media reported), to join the sdp in 1981. crawshaw was a strong supporter of the territorial army and on one occasion voted against the annual defence estimates because they failed to make a large enough provision for it.

he was later raised to the peerage as baron crawshaw of aintree, of salford in the county of greater manchester. he was reported to have been a very diligent constituency mp who personally visited the homes in his liverpool constituency of toxteth calling on the homes in several streets each week, to the surprise of the residents.























</doc>
<doc id="4940446" title="and tango makes three" nonfiltered="443" processed="434" dbindex="446">
and tango makes three is a children's book written by peter parnell and justin richardson and illustrated by henry cole, based on the true story of roy and silo, two male penguins in new york's central park zoo, who, for a time, formed a couple.  the book follows part of this time in the penguin's lives. this book teaches children that it's okay to be in or know someone who has an alternative family, not the "traditional" family.

the pair were observed trying to hatch a rock that resembled an egg.  when zookeepers realized that roy and silo were both male, it occurred to them to give them the second egg of a mixed-sex penguin couple, a couple which had previously been unable to successfully hatch two eggs at once.  roy and silo hatched and raised the healthy young chick, a female named "tango" by keepers, together as a family.

the penguins in the book are chinstrap penguins.

awards & nominations.
and tango makes three has received several national book awards.   in 2006 it was named an american library association notable children's book. it received the apcsa's henry bergh award and the gustavus myer outstanding book award. it was named a nick jr. family magazine best book of the year, a bank street best book of the year, a cooperative children's book council choice, and a cbc/ncss notable social studies trade book.tango was also a finalist for the 2006 lambda literary award.

controversy.
the book has generated controversy among parents in some parts of the united states.

in shiloh, illinois, some parents of students at shiloh elementary school requested in november 2006 that the book be placed in a restricted section of the library and for the school to consider that students have parental permission prior to checking the book out. the school superintendent resolved instead to keep the book available to all students.;

in missouri, parents had the book moved to the school library's non-fiction section.;

in charlotte, north carolina, the superintendent of charlotte-mecklenburg schools, peter gorman, ordered the book removed from school libraries on december 20, 2006. gorman agreed to let a committee review the decision due to concerns that the policy on banning books was not followed.;

editions.
and tango makes three, simon & schuster children's publishing, april 26 2005 isbn 0-689-87845-1;

references.


external links.
 cns article;
 san francisco chroncile article on sfgate.com;
 ananova article on "tempting gay penguins straight" in germany;
 followup ananova article on german authorities stopping trying to change the penguins' sexual orientation, after glbtqipps organizations protest;



</doc>
<doc id="5082770" title="jesse h. metcalf" nonfiltered="444" processed="435" dbindex="447">

jesse houghton metcalf (november 16, 1860 - october 9, 1942) was a united states senator from rhode island. born in providence, he was educated in private schools there, studied textile manufacturing in yorkshire, england,  and engaged in textile manufacturing. in 1889 metcalf received a large bequest from his father's business partner, henry j. steere. metcalf served as a member of the rhode island house of representatives from 1889 to 1891 and in 1907, and was a member of the providence common council from 1888 to 1892. he was chairman of the metropolitan park commission of rhode island from 1909 to 1924, and a member of the penal and charitable board from 1917 to 1923. in addition, he was president of rhode island hospital, a trustee of the rhode island school of design at providence and of brown university, and from 1935 to 1940 a republican national committeeman.

metcalf was elected as a republican to the u.s. on november 4, 1924, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of lebaron b. colt; on the same day was also elected for the term commencing march 4, 1925. he was reelected in 1930 and served from november 5, 1924, to january 3, 1937; he was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1936. while in the senate he was chairman of the committee on patents (sixty-ninth and seventieth congresses) and a member of the committee on education and labor (seventy-first and seventy-second congresses). he died in providence in 1942; interment was in swan point cemetery.

references.
;










</doc>
<doc id="8354862" title="stevenson college, edinburgh" nonfiltered="445" processed="436" dbindex="448">

stevenson college, edinburgh is the fifth largest college in scotland. it was founded in 1970, and is named after famous scottish engineer, robert stevenson. the current principal is susan bird. 

the college has five faculties offering a wide range of subjects. these faculties are:
early education, health and social care,
business and computing,
languages and tourism,
creative arts,
science, sport and engineering.

the college welcomes approximatley 17000 students each year, of which approx. 1000 are from overseas.

stevenson college website


</doc>
<doc id="1057368" title="blidworth" nonfiltered="446" processed="437" dbindex="449">
blidworth is a small but old village approximately five miles east of mansfield, nottinghamshire, uk.

the church of st. mary of the purification is the only church that is known to continue to hold an annual rockings ceremony during which the baby boy, born to parents living in blidworth, nearest to christmas day is  rocked  in an ancient cradle on the feast of the purification of mary which is on the sunday nearest to candlemas

all of the babies who have taken part in the rocking ceremonies have their names recorded upon a plaque at the rear of st marys church with their full name and the year in which they were 'rocked'. in 1980 the rocking ceremony was performed by the rt hon bishop of southwell. the child concerned was edward william tristram who received a commemorative bible in-order to mark the occasion which was inscribed by the bishop of southwell.

incumbents of st. mary of the purification, blidworth.
the list of incumbents goes back to the 14th century:

hugh (1337);
thomas clerke (1470);
william talbot (1485 1498);
william aldworth ( 1530 d);
james alsebrook (1530 );
william helmsley ( 1566 d);
john sye (1567 1575);
mr. creasie (1575 1584);
robert grace (1584 1587);
henry elwe (1588 1598);
john collinson (1599 1602);
henry ellyott (1602 1603);
john hains (1603 1636);
james reade (1636 1643 d);
john newton (1643 1649);
thomas rose (1649 1663), evicted at the english restoration;
michael buxton (1663 1705 d) (see memorial: perhaps 1716);
william thorpe (1716 1721 d);
thomas allen (1722 1739 d);
robert stanley (1740 1783);
seth stevenson (1783 1794) (also vicar of oxton);
john t. beecher (1794 1801) (also vicar of oxton);
john hall clay (1801 1822);
c. f. fenwick (1824 1830) (also vicar of oxton);
john downall (1830 1842);
martin roe (1842 1849 d);
john porter (1850 1864 d);
richard whitworth (1865 1908);
charles littleholes (1908 1914);
john paddison (1914 1921);
john lowndes (1921 1933);
henry carline swingler (1933 1938 d);
robert rogerson (1938 1939 d);
walter warr (1940 1956);
jack busby (1956 1967);
charles sawyer (1967 30 november 1983);
raymond beardall (4 may 1984 1999);
beryl allsop (2000 ) (technically associate priest since the amalgamation of the parishes of blidworth and rainworth);

the druid stone.
on the outskirts of the village of blidworth lies the druid stone (grid reference: sk5787-558), a pillar of cemented glacial gravel standing on a base of the nottingham castle rock formation (bunter pebble beds). this monumental object is 14ft high, 84ft around the base and has a hollow centre large enough for a man to pass through. 

the druid stone faces sunrise at the time of the summer solstice (21st june) and is said to have been used for sacrifice and fertility rituals around the 3rd century bc.







</doc>
<doc id="548297" title="metasearch engine" nonfiltered="447" processed="438" dbindex="450">
a meta-search engine is a search engine that sends user requests to several other search engines and/or databases and returns the results from each one.  meta search enables users to enter search criteria once and access several search engines simultaneously.  since it is hard to catalogue the entire web, the idea is that by searching multiple search engines you are able to search more of the web in less time and do it with only one click.  the ease of use and high probability of finding the desired page(s) make metasearch engines popular with those who are willing to weed through the lists of irrelevant 'matches'. another use is to get at least some results when no result had been obtained with traditional search engines.

metasearch engines create what is known as a virtual database.  they do not compile a physical database or catalogue of the web.  instead, they take a user's request, pass it to several other heterogeneous databases and then compile the results in a  manner based on a specific algorithm.  

no two metasearch engines are alike.  some search only the most popular search engines while others also search lesser-known engines, newsgroups, and other databases.  they also differ in how the results are presented and the quantity of engines that are used.  some will list results according to search engine or database.  others return results according to relevance, often concealing which search engine returned which results.  this benefits the user by eliminating duplicate hits and grouping the most relevant ones at the top of the list.

search engines frequently have different ways they expect requests submitted. for example, some search engines allow the usage of the word "and" while others require "+" and others require only a space to combine words.  the better metasearch engines try to synthesize requests appropriately when submitting them.

results can vary between metasearch engines based on a large number of variables.  still, even the most basic metasearch engine will allow more of the web to be searched at once than any one stand-alone search engine.

metasearch engines are sometimes used in vertical search portals, and to search the deep web.

see also.
search aggregator;
federated search;
aggregator;



 for engines, see the list of search engines;

 external links .
 ;
 guide to meta-search engines by uc berkeley libraries with recommendation not to use them;
 meta-search: more heads better than one? argument against berkeley's disrecommendation;
 virtual learning resources center - websites recommended by teachers and librarians;











</doc>
<doc id="1459275" title="thomas r. kelly" nonfiltered="448" processed="439" dbindex="451">


thomas raymond kelly (1893-january 17 1941) was an american quaker missionary and educator.  he taught and wrote on the subject of mysticism.  his books are widely read, especially by people interested in spirituality.

kelly was born in 1893 in ohio to a religious society of friends (quaker) family.  the quakers in ohio had been influenced by the 19th century revivalists and were hardly distinguishable from other low-church protestant groups.

he graduated in 1913 from wilmington college as a chemistry major.  then he went to haverford college in philadelphia, pennsylvania where he came under the mentoring of rufus jones, a prominent friend.  it was at this time that he came into contact with the more traditional mystical vein of the religious society of friends.

kelly went to hartford theological seminary to be trained as a missionary.  he desired to serve in asia.  when world war i broke out he signed up to do civilian non-combatant service in europe.  devout quakers practice pacifism in accordance with the friends' peace testimony.  for this reason he chose non-combatant service.  kelly went to england where he worked first with the ymca and then with german prisoners of war.  when he returned to the united states he completed his seminary training and married lael macy.

kelly taught for two years (1919-1921) at his alma mater, wilmington college.  then he went back to hartford seminary where he earned a doctorate in philosophy and an induction to phi beta kappa.  he and his wife then went to berlin and worked with the american friends' service committee on the reconstruction of germany.

when he returned, the only job he could find was at earlham college in richmond, indiana.  he was unhappy there and came to realize that he did not agree with much of his evangelical background anymore.

in 1930 kelly began working on a second ph.d. at harvard.  while working on this degree he taught at wellesley college (1931-1932) and again at earlham (1932-1935).  in 1935 he went to teach at the university of hawaii and began advanced research in eastern philosophies.

in 1936 kelly became a professor at haverford college.  he published the dissertation for his second doctorate in 1937, but he failed in the oral defense due to a memory lapse.  this failure put kelly into a period of grief, during which time he apparently had a spiritual awakening.

in 1938 kelly went to germany to encourage friends living under hitler's regime.

kelly received word on january 17 1941 that harper and brothers was willing to meet with him to discuss the publication of a devotional book.  he died of a heart attack later that same day.  three months later kelly's colleague, douglas steere, submitted five of kelly's devotional essays to the publisher along with a biographical sketch of kelly.  the book was published under the title a testament of devotion.  some of his other essays have been collected in a book entitled the eternal promise.

 bibliography.

a testament of devotion.  isbn 0-06-064361-7;
the eternal promise isbn 0-944350-02-x;

external links.
article on kelly in spirituality today;










</doc>
<doc id="2191117" title="roy decarava" nonfiltered="449" processed="440" dbindex="452">
roy decarava (born december 9, 1919) is a master american photographer. 

roy decarava was born in harlem in december of 1919, and lived there through many decades of important changes to the neighborhood. in decarava s youth, harlem was cultivating its reputation as a flourishing african american neighborhood, and he came of age during a time when many prominent black artists, musicians and writers were in their prime. he was close to poet langston hughes, and would later publish a book with him titled, the sweet flypaper of life, which chronicled the lives of harlem residents. 

decarava was raised by his single mother, and to earn money he began working at an early age. he continued to hold odd jobs throughout most of his career as a photographer. through diligence and hard work, he secured admission to the cooper union, but left after two years to attend classes at the harlem art center. deciding early on that he wanted to be an artist, he began working as a painter and commercial illustrator, and many of his early photographs were meant only as reference for serigraph prints.  he was drawn to photography by  the directness of the medium , and he soon found himself communicating the themes and ideas of his paintings photographically.  

while many still regarded photography as a documentary medium, and as a result a great visual lexicon of photojournalism was created by so-called street photographers like garry winogrand and helen levitt. decarava, however, has never considered himself of this tradition. rather his work harkens to the intense visual imagery and tones that influenced him as an early painter and graphic artist. he cherishes the people, places, and events in his pictures and developed early the means to express his affection. he shoots using only ambient light, then prints so as to coax light expressively out of very dark images or, less often, to delineate darker detail in very light ones. the grays in his black-and-white pictures are velvety and warm--qualities he occasionally enhances by purposely shooting out of focus or exposing long enough to show movement.

the strong lines, extraordinarily rich tonality, and exploration of light in his work charge his photographs with earthy mystery, like a prime rembrandt painting (rembrandt was an early influence) or a late michelangelo sculpture in which, because of the artist's rendering of light and mass, life seems to be springing off the canvas.

decarava worked for a time at sports illustrated magazine, but found it difficult to adjust his style and schedule to the constraints of commercial work. he did a series on the set of requiem for a heavyweight in 1962, which the director liked so much he bought nearly 200 prints. despite his successes decarava felt very strongly about maintaining the artistic integrity of his images, and eventually gave up magazine and freelance work in order to take on a job teaching at hunter college, where he is still a distinguished member of the faculty.  in 2006, he was awarded the national medal of arts.

 works consulted .
 sound i saw. phaidon press, 2000;
 roy decarava,  a retrospective. museum of modern art new york, ny 1996;
 roy decarava, photographs. edited by james alinder, friends of photography, 1981.

 external links .
 masters of photography: roy decarava;






</doc>
<doc id="418496" title="xsil" nonfiltered="450" processed="441" dbindex="453">
xsil is an xml-based transport language for scientific data, supporting the inclusion of both in-file data and metadata. the language comes with an extensible java object model. the language's elementary objects include param (arbitrary association between a keyword and a value), array, table (a set of column headings followed by a set of records), and stream, which enables one to either encapsulate data inside the xsil file or point to an external data source.

bfd is an xml dialect based on xsil.



external links.
 xsil: extensible scientific interchange language;
 xsil paper (pdf);





</doc>
<doc id="1127450" title="matt carter" nonfiltered="451" processed="442" dbindex="454">
matthew john carter (b. 22 march 1972) is a former general secretary of the british labour party.

born near grimsby, carter studied at sheffield university and the university of york, and has a dphil in political history. 

carter was tutor in the department of politics at the university of york from 1994. he subsequently held a number of jobs in the labour party, including head of policy, local organiser for teesside and durham and regional organiser in south west england during the 2001 general election. as assistant general secretary, he set up forethought, a policy think tank within the party.

in 1997, carter was a member of labour's national policy forum and parliamentary candidate for the vale of york. matt carter is labour s youngest general secretary, appointed to the job aged 31 in december 2003 . he took up office on 1 january 2004 succeeding david triesman, and announced his resignation on 6 september 2005, following the 2005 general election victory. 

while general secretary carter organised the legal aspects of loans from individuals to the labour party that were central to the cash for peerages political scandal. 

he has written the people's party: the history of the labour party with tony wright (1997) and t.h. green and the development of ethical socialism (2003).

matt carter married erica moffitt in 1997 and has three children, and now lives near bath.

external link.
matt carter, 2005 who's who entry profiled in the times;









</doc>
<doc id="1967161" title="post-normal science" nonfiltered="452" processed="443" dbindex="455">
post-normal science is a concept developed by silvio funtowicz and jerome ravetz, attempting to characterise a methodology of inquiry that is appropriate for contemporary conditions.  the typical case is when "facts are uncertain, values in dispute, stakes high and decisions urgent".  in such circumstances, we have an inversion of the traditional distinction between hard, objective scientific facts, and soft subjective values.  now we have value-driven policy decisions that are 'hard' in various ways, for which the scientific inputs are irremediably 'soft'.

we can understand 'post-normal science' by means of a diagram, where the axes are 'systems uncertainties' and 'decision stakes'.  when both are low, we have 'applied science', the routine puzzle-solving like the 'normal science' described by  thomas samuel kuhn in his book the structure of scientific revolutions.  when either is medium, we have 'professional consultancy' for which the examples are the surgeon or the senior engineer.  although their work is based on science, they must always cope with uncertainties, and their mistakes can be costly or lethal.  it had once been believed that environmental and general policy problems could be managed at this level, but the great issues of global warming and diverse forms of pollution show that framing and implementing policies must frequently be done before all the facts are in. thus many problems occur in the high-stakes, high-uncertainty region of the diagram, a condition referred to as 'post-normal.'

this is why there must be an 'extended peer community' consisting of all those affected by an issue who are prepared to enter into dialogue on it.  they bring their 'extended facts', that will include local knowledge and materials not originally intended for publication such as leaked official information.  there is a political case for this extension of the franchise of science; but funtowicz and ravetz also argue that this extension is necessary for assuring the quality of the process and of the product.  in recent years the principles and practices of post-normal science have been widely adopted under the title 'participation'.

bibliography.

ravetz, j. r. 1986. usable knowledge, usable ignorance: incomplete science with policy implications. in clark, w. c., and r. c. munn, ed. sustainable development of the biosphere. p. 415-432. new york: cambridge university press.
funtowicz, s. o., and j. r. ravetz 1992. three types of risk assessment and the emergence of post-normal science. in krimsky, s., and d. golding, ed. social theories of risk. p. 251-274. westport, ct: praeger.
funtowicz and ravetz   "science for the post-normal age",  futures,  25/7 september  1993, 735-755.

external links.

post-normal times;
nusap.net;





</doc>
<doc id="4220048" title="bd's mongolian barbeque" nonfiltered="453" processed="444" dbindex="456">

bd's mongolian barbeque is an american restaurant chain serving almost exclusively patron-prepared stir-fry meals. it was founded by michigan entrepreneur billy "bd" downs and his wife after a visit to a similar restaurant in london and is headquartered in ferndale, michigan. 

the restaurant currently has 30 locations, mostly concentrated in the northern midwest. the restaurant has recently opened locations in florida, and kentucky and is looking to continued expansion. in may of 2005 bd's opened a profit sharing franchise in ulaanbaatar, mongolia, which is geared towards helping mongolian children's charities. mongo charities was established in 2005 to help raise funds for the mongolian youth development foundation (mydf). mongolian youth development foundation (mydf) is non-governmental, non profit making organization with major emphasis on providing youth development programs in mongolia and working to assist mongolian youth in their development into active members of society, by providing social, educational, cultural and physical activities.

while the ingredients used at bd's are not typical of traditional mongolian cuisine, the preparation technique is modeled on the practice of the mongol empire, when soldiers would gather large quantities of meats and prepare them with their swords on their overturned shields over a large fire.  today grillers use 3-foot (0.9 m) metal "swords" and cook on an 8-foot (2.4 m) diameter gas flat top grill reaching temperatures of 600 degrees fahrenheit (300\b0 c).

external links.
bd's mongolian barbeque;





</doc>
<doc id="3665605" title="sven erikssons gymnasiet" nonfiltered="454" processed="445" dbindex="457">


sven eriksonsgymnasiet is a gymnasium in bor\e5s, sweden, which has courses in technical sciences, economy, energy, entrepreneuring and international baccalaureate. it also has various sportcourses such as football and ice hockey.

about 1000 students study at sven eriksonsgymnasiet each year.

the school is better known as teknis by the citizens of bor\e5s, due to its history of being a site for higher technical learning.

 external links .
elevk\e5ren teknis - official site;







</doc>
<doc id="2130818" title="georgios balakakis" nonfiltered="455" processed="446" dbindex="458">
georgios balakakis was a greece fencer.  he competed at the 1896 summer olympics in athens.

balakakis competed in the amateur foil event.  he placed fourth of four in his preliminary group after losing all of his bouts, to eug\e8ne-henri gravelotte, konstantinos komninos-miliotis, and athanasios vouros.  this put him in a tie for seventh overall, with ioannis poulos who was fourth in the other preliminary group.









</doc>
<doc id="90947" title="ozaukee county, wisconsin" nonfiltered="456" processed="447" dbindex="459">

ozaukee county is a county  in the u.s. state of wisconsin.  as of 2000, the population was 82,317.  its county seat is port washington6. ozaukee county has the smallest land mass of any county in the state of wisconsin. as of the 2000 census, ozaukee county had the 2nd lowest poverty rate of any county in the united states, at 2.6%. in terms of per capita income, it is the 33rd wealthiest county in the country.

geography.
according to the u.s. census bureau, the county has a total area of 2,891 km\b2 (1,116 mi\b2).  601 km\b2 (232 mi\b2) of it is land and 2,290 km\b2 (884 mi\b2) of it (79.22%) is water.

 adjacent counties .
sheboygan county - north;
milwaukee county - south;
waukesha county - southwest;
washington county - west;

demographics.
	



as of the census\b2 of 2000, there were 82,317 people, 30,857 households, and 23,019 families residing in the county.  the population density was 137/km\b2 (355/mi\b2).  there were 32,034 housing units at an average density of 53/km\b2 (138/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the county was 96.72% white, 0.93% black or african american, 0.20% native american, 1.07% asian, 0.02% pacific islander, 0.34% from other races, and 0.73% from two or more races.  1.30% of the population were hispanic or latino of any race.

there were 30,857 households out of which 36.00% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 65.60% were married couples living together, 6.50% had a female householder with no husband present, and 25.40% were non-families. 21.40% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.40% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.61 and the average family size was 3.07.

in the county, the population was spread out with 26.60% under the age of 18, 6.80% from 18 to 24, 28.00% from 25 to 44, 25.90% from 45 to 64, and 12.60% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 39 years. for every 100 females there were 97.30 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 94.00 males.

 government .
county executive:  none;
district attorney: sandra williams (r);
sheriff: maury straub (r);

 cities, towns, and villages .
note that towns are minor civil divisions of counties
belgium village and town;
cedarburg city and town ;
fredonia village and town;

grafton village and town;
mequon;
newburg (partial);
port washington city and town;
saukville village and town;
thiensville;

external links.
ozaukee county;












</doc>
<doc id="2321749" title="2008 fina short course world championships" nonfiltered="457" processed="448" dbindex="460">

the 9th fina short course world championships will be held in manchester, great britain in 2008.









</doc>
<doc id="135844" title="midlothian, texas" nonfiltered="458" processed="449" dbindex="461">
midlothian is a city in northwest ellis county, texas,  united states. as of 2006, the city population is estimated at 13,200.

midlothian's former motto, evidenced by older signs that still stand around the city, was "the steel and cement capital of texas", as three large cement manufacturers and one large steel manufacturer are located in and around the city.  the city's new motto is "dfw's southern star". 

midlothian's industrial base was to be supplemented by the superconducting super collider project in the adjacent city, waxahachie, east of midlothian.  however, the project was halted by the united states house of representatives in 1993.

geography.

midlothian is located at  (32.480169, -96.989350).

adjacent cities are cedar hill to the north, mansfield to the northwest, venus to the southwest, waxahachie to the southeast, and ovilla to the northeast.

the city limits of midlothian covers approximately 53 square miles and the extra-territorial jurisdiction another 33 square miles.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 7,480 people, 2,650 households, and 2,011 families residing in the city. the population density was 76.6/km\b2 (198.4/mi\b2). there were 2,792 housing units at an average density of 28.6/km\b2 (74.0/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the city was 90.45% white, 2.91% african american, 0.52% native american, 0.49% asian, 0.01% pacific islander, 3.94% from other races, and 1.66% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 13.11% of the population.

there were 2,650 households out of which 42.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.9% were married couples living together, 11.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 24.1% were non-families. 19.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 7.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 2.82 and the average family size was 3.25.

in the city the population was spread out with 31.2% under the age of 18, 8.8% from 18 to 24, 32.9% from 25 to 44, 19.3% from 45 to 64, and 7.8% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 31 years. for every 100 females there were 100.0 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 97.7 males.

the median income for a household in the city was $49,464, and the median income for a family was $55,055. males had a median income of $37,151 versus $27,209 for females. the per capita income for the city was $19,329. about 4.4% of families and 6.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 8.2% of those under age 18 and 8.0% of those age 65 or over.

economy.
three of the top ten largest cement factories in the united states operate in the city: texas industries ("txi"), holcim and ash grove. chaparral steel, spun off from txi, also runs a large steel factory adjacent to txi's cement plant.  due primarily to the air pollution generated by these industries, the environmental protection agency concluded that ellis county was in non-attainment of the clean air act. (the epa also concluded that dallas, tarrant, collin and denton counties were also in non-attainment.)



a large industrial park, railport is located along u.s. 67 on the southwestern side of the city. railport is home to several distribution facilities including, target, toys r us, and kehe foods. a 1.5 million square foot facility for solo cups is forthcoming.  

the north side of the city is also host to midtexas international center s auto park, a large automobile distribution and processing center.

triple freeport tax exemption.
many industrial and distribution businesses (like txi and target) in midlothian are exempt from local taxes or have deeply discounted local taxes.  it is called the triple freeport tax exemption meaning that the businesses are exempt from property taxes from the city, county and school district.  because of lower government revenues but higher infrastructure costs to serve these businesses, property taxes for other businesses and residents are higher.  
music. 
midlothian has high number of bands that have come from it (a recent study showed that in four years more than 60 bands have formed in midlothian). due to a strict school and conservative community, these bands are mostly of the rock genre. music teachers have encouraged this, and several of the bands have gone on to be signed by major labels such as victory. there are two primary venues for music in midlothian, the lighthouse, where bands such as photodrive play, and the midlothian bible church.

education.
the city of midlothian is served by the midlothian independent school district and navarro college.

health effects of local industry.
a peer-reviewed survey of acute health symptoms (not chronic conditions like cancer) in the area surrounding the cement plants in midlothian found a 30% higher rate of respiratory problems among those living downwind or in proximity of the plants (the study was conducted by a ut toxicologist in 1997-98).

references.


external links.
midlothian official website;
midlothian family network - critic of midlothian industial businesses and politicians;
county residents resisting annexation by midlothian;
midlothian observer blog;










</doc>
<doc id="2173596" title="ruthwell cross" nonfiltered="459" processed="450" dbindex="462">


the ruthwell cross is an important anglo saxon cross, dating back to the eighth century. this cross is remarkable for its runic inscription, which contains excerpts from the dream of the rood, an old english poem. it is 18 feet (5.5 metres) high. the cross was smashed in 1664, but it was restored in 1818 by henry duncan. it now rests in ruthwell church.

destruction and restoration.
this cross used to stand in the church at ruthwell; it escaped injury at the time of general destruction in the sixteenth century, but the general assembly of the church of scotland ordered the "many idolatrous monuments erected and made for religious worship" to be "taken down, demolished, and destroyed". it was not till two years later, however, that the cross was taken down when an act was passed "anent the idolatrous monuments in ruthwell". it was shattered, and some of the carved emblems were nearly obliterated, and in this state the rood was left where it had fallen, in the altarless church, and was used, it appears, as a bench to sit upon. later on it was removed from the church and left out in the churchyard. in 1818, henry duncan collected all the pieces he could find, and put them together, adding two new crossbeams (the original ones were lost), and having gaps filled in with little pieces of stone.

duncan's restoration is questionable. he was convinced to be reconstructing a "popish" (roman catholic) monument, and based his work on "drawings of similar popish relics".
duncan dismissed the early medieval motif of paul and anthony breaking bread in the desert as probably "founded on some popish tradition".

runic inscription.
there are carvings upon it of various events in the life of jesus, on the north and south sides. on the top-stone, north, is a representation of saint john with the eagle, and on the top-stone, south, is st john with the lamb of god. on the east and west is carved a vine in fruit, with animals feeding.

at each side of the vine-tracery the runes are carved. the runes were first described around 1600, and  reginald bainbrigg of appleby recorded the inscription for the britannia of william camden. around 1832, the runes were recognized as different from the scandinavian futhark (viz., they are to be categorized as anglo-saxon futhorc) by thorleif repp, by reference to the exeter book. his rendition referred to a place called the vale of ashlafr, compensation for injury, a font and a monastery of therfuse.




john mitchell kemble in 1840 advanced a reading referring to mary magdalene. the better known dream of the rood reading,
    ;
    krist w\e6s on rodi. hwe\fer\e6'/ \feer fus\e6 fearran kwomu / \e6\fe\feil\e6 til anum.;
    "christ was on the cross. yet / the brave came there from afar / to their lord." ;
is due to a revised reading of kemble's in an 1842 article.  kemble's revised reading is based on the poem of the vercelli book, to the extent that missing words in each are supplied from the other. its authenticity is disputed and may be a conjecture inserted by kemple himself: o'neill (2005) notes kemble's "almost pathological dislike of scandinavian interference in what he sees as the english domain". kemble himself notes how the inscription may be "corrected" with the help of the vercelli book.

literature.
brendan cassidy (ed.), the ruthwell cross, princeton university press (1992).
richard j. kelly (ed.), stone, skin and sliver, litho press / sheed & ward (1999);

external links.
;
http://www.english.unimelb.edu.au/antithesis/new2005/forum-3/03-pamelaoneill.html;




</doc>
<doc id="1847817" title="nancy daus" nonfiltered="460" processed="451" dbindex="463">

nancy elizabeth daus sullivan benoit (born may 21, 1964)  (more commonly known by her in-ring names as woman and fallen angel) was a professional wrestling valet and manager who has since retired from the business. she is married to world wrestling entertainment smackdown! superstar, chris benoit.

career.
early days.
when george napolitano needed a beautiful young girl for the cover of the june 1984 edition of the pro-wrestling magazine wrestling all stars fellow photographer bill otten suggested the young nancy daus for the role.

nancy, who would often sit alongside her then husband jim to watch matches was no new-comer to being in a wrestling magazine. nancy, who had been selling programs at the orlando shows took the job.

it was on this shoot where she met kevin sullivan who became enamored with the raven-haired beauty. sullivan eventually wanted her to be a part of his wrestling entourage, and after months of convincing, nancy finally became an on-air valet, taking the name fallen angel. she made her in-ring debut on july 7, 1984 at the lakeland civic center in lakeland, florida for florida championship wrestling. 

she became a part of kevin sullivan's stable of "satanists", which also included wrestlers luna vachon, the purple haze, and sir oliver humperdink.

nancy and kevin sullivan were married in 1985 and the duo would travel throughout the u.s. using the "satanist" gimmick for promotions such as angelo savoldi's icw and southwest championship wrestling.

nwa.
in 1989, nancy appeared in the nwa's jim crockett promotions as robin green, rick steiner's biggest fan who would sit at ringside cheering him on during matches. eventually she talked rick into letting her actually stand at ringside with missy hyatt during a tag-team match with brother scott against the fabulous freebirds, michael hayes and jimmy garvin. nancy caused the steiners to lose the match and soon left rick to manage the masked team of doom (ron simmons and butch reed). during this time she also changed her name to woman. the steiner brothers and doom went on to feud, with the main point being the steiners still seeking revenge on woman. in response, she acquired a bodyguard known as nitron to protect her from them.

in 1990, ric flair and his four horsemen soon caught her wandering eye and she dumped nitron and doom to manage flair. she fit in well with the "dirtiest player in the game", interfering in his matches and helping him keep his nwa world title. she left the nwa by mid-1990 however.

she later rejoined her husband kevin in iccw and other smaller promotions.

ecw.
never one to stay put for too long, 1993 saw kevin and nancy surface in the fledgling ecw, where - once again called simply woman - she managed sullivan and the tazmaniac to the tag team titles. when kevin resought the greener pastures of wcw, nancy remained in ecw, going on to manage sandman and 2 cold scorpio. she captivated the crowd as, once again, she almost seamlessly reinvented herself to fit with the sandman's gimmick - opening his beers, lighting his cigarettes, and destroying his opponents with her own kendo stick.

wcw.
after being unceremoniously dumped by sandman and scorpio in ecw, she once again resurfaced in wcw, first appearing as one of many women who would stand in the aisle and wave as hulk hogan and randy savage came to the ring. she stayed at ringside, but couldn't help but show her true colors when she turned on savage and rejoined flair, arn anderson and chris benoit in the then-current incarnation of the four horsemen. miss elizabeth also managed the stable.

in 1996, the horsemen added steve mcmichael, and with him came his wife debra; this didn't sit well with woman, and the two began bickering and generally not getting along. at the same time, she started an on-screen relationship with benoit, rubbing it in sullivan's face. as fate would have it, this on-screen relationship would develop into a real affair off-screen. this resulted in a violent feud between benoit and sullivan that saw woman clashing with sullivan's then-valet jacquelyn at ringside. in one memorable match, the two ladies were lashed together, which didn't stop them from taking shots at each other, and even using the strap connecting them as a weapon against the men.

sullivan and nancy (off-screen) divorced in 1997 and (on-screen) sullivan lost a retirement match to benoit. it is often joked that 'kevin sullivan booked his own divorce'. sullivan's intent was to retire from in-ring action and focus on booking. as a booker, sullivan caused nancy to (off-screen) quit wrestling when she refused to be topless in an angle sullivan created for a ppv. 

nancy and benoit married in 1997, although benoit didn't start referring to nancy as his wife until shortly before the birth of their son daniel in 2000 (on his former official website, nancy was referred to as his fiancee). to this day, she is still not an active on-air performer, though she does actively manage her husband's career from their home in atlanta.

nancy and her kids were present in the front row at wwe backlash in 2004, when benoit successfully defended the world heavyweight championship against shawn michaels and triple h, in a rematch from wrestlemania xx.

wrestlers managed.
kevin sullivan;
arn anderson;
ric flair;
too cold scorpio;
sandman;
psychosis;
taz;
ron simmons;
butch reed;
chris benoit;

personal life.
daus has been married to kevin sullivan in the past and is currently married to chris benoit. she has two children.

external links.
imdb entry;
obsessed with wrestling profile;









</doc>
<doc id="1644961" title="marc aur\e8le de foy suzor-cot\e9" nonfiltered="461" processed="452" dbindex="464">
marc aur\e8le de foy suzor-cot\e9 (april 6 1869   january 29 1937) was a canadian painter and sculptor.

he was born in arthabaska, quebec in 1869. he studied at the \c9cole des beaux-arts in paris with l\e9on bonnat during the 1890s. after his return to quebec in 1908, he produced many impressionist paintings of the quebec landscape, as well as portraits, nudes, historical paintings and later sculptures.

suzor-cot\e9 became paralyzed in 1927 and later died at daytona beach, florida in 1937.

external link.
canadian sculpture: coming of age;












</doc>
<doc id="1355339" title="9 live" nonfiltered="462" processed="453" dbindex="465">
9 live is a commercial german participation tv channel and launched on september 1, 2001. it originated from a channel called tm3. most of its programming is lottery and quiz games, in which the viewer can participate over the phone. an english version also broadcast in the uk in late 2004 and early 2005, during e4's downtime hours.

the channel finances itself mainly through money paid for the phone calls. independently of whether the calling party will have the chance to talk to the quiz host, they will pay 49 euro cent to call from germany or 70 cents from austria. the former ceo, christiane zu salm, sees the channel as "participation tv" ("mitmachfernsehen").

the games are legally controversial. in german law, there is the distinction between "gl\fccksspiel" (gambling) and "gewinnspiel" (lottery), the latter theoretically being gambling without money being bet. gambling is not allowed on german television. in court, 9 live defended itself with the argument that a phone call does not cost more than sending a postcard to advertisement-financed lotteries of magazines and tv-shows, which themselves are considered a "gewinnspiel".

the total revenue of 9live was 60.6 million euro in the year 2002 and 78.7 million in 2003. for comparison, during broadcast the channel proudly claims to have paid out close to one million euro in november 2004 alone.

9live also features a wide range of humorous and comical moderators.  one name worth mentioning is alida lauenstein, winner of big brother germany and german playmate of the year, who can be seen moderating from time to time.

 criticism .

critics accuse 9 live of deceiving people about their chances, for example by deliberately keeping the rules of the quiz vague, alternating them randomly and rarely explaining them even if a solution is presented.

the channel attracted attention to itself when it announced a "show for the unemployed", in which the caller had the chance of winning employment. minister of labour walter riester called the idea absurd and cynical.

there is also criticism over the channel's late night programming, which features soft core pornography and phone sex advertisements.  as of 2006 the channel now broadcasts its late night programming from the hours of 2 am until 6am.

 sources .

 post about lottery law in germany (german);
 german wikipedia entry from january 2005;

 external links .

official site ;
abzocke mit undurchsichtigen spielregeln? critical clip as part of the tv magazine ard (tv) plusminus ;
article of "report mainz" about the planned show for the unemployed ;





</doc>
<doc id="3620266" title="minimal instruction set computer" nonfiltered="463" processed="454" dbindex="466">
misc (minimal instruction set computer) is a processor architecture with a very small number of basic operations and corresponding opcodes.  such instruction sets are commonly stack based rather than register based to reduce the size of operand specifiers.  such a stack machine architecture is inherently simpler since all instructions operate on the top most stack entries. a result of this is a smaller intruction set, a smaller and faster instruction decode unit, and overall faster operation of individual instructions.  the downside is that instructions tend to have more sequential dependencies, reducing instruction-level parallelism.  misc architectures have a lot in common with the forth programming language, and the java virtual machine.

probably the most commerically successful misc was the inmos transputer.

external links.
forth misc chip designs;
seaforth-24 - the latest multi-core misc design from chuck moore;










</doc>
<doc id="5183086" title="jim bulpitt" nonfiltered="464" processed="455" dbindex="467">
james graham bulpitt (1937 - 5 april, 1999) was a professor of politics at the university of warwick and a political scientist.

bulpitt was born in wembley, london to a working-class family. he studied at the university of exeter and manchester and then went on to be a research fellow at the university of milan. bulpitt returned to the uk to be a lecturer at the university of strathclyde. 

he then went to lecture at warwick in 1965 as a founding member of its politics department. he eventually came to be chairman of the politics department. bulpitt founded modern british studies at warwick. at warwick there is an annual prize of \a3100 awarded to a final year student for the best overall performance in the degrees of politics or politics with international studies.

publications.

jim bulpitt, party politics in english local government (longman, 1967).
jim bulpitt, territory and power in the united kingdom (manchester university press, 1983).
jim bulpitt, 'the discipline of the new democracy: mrs. thatcher's domestic statecraft', political studies, 34:1, (1985), pp. 19-39.
jim bulpitt, 'rational politicians and conservative statecraft in the open polity', in peter byrd (ed.), british foreign policy under thatcher (oxford: philip allan, 1988), 214-256.
jim bulpitt, open polity: external affairs and british domestic politics in the 1980's (allan, 1989).
jim bulpitt, 'conservative leaders and the 'euro-ratchet': five doses of scepticism', political quarterly, 63 (1992), pp. 258-275.
jim bulpitt, 'the european question: rules, national modernisation and the ambiguities of primat der innenpolitik', in david marquand and anthony seldon (eds.) the ideas that shaped post-war britain, (london: fontana, 1996), pp. 214-256.
peter burnham and jim bulpitt, 'operation robot and the british political economy in the early 1950s: the politics of market strategies', contemporary british history, vol. 13, no. 1, spring, 1999, pp. 1-31.

references.

 http://www.britishcouncil.org/studies/bsn_pdfs/bsn12.pdf;







</doc>
<doc id="7893267" title="nejo (woreda)" nonfiltered="465" processed="456" dbindex="468">
nejo is one of the 180 woredas in the oromia region of ethiopia. part of the mirab welega zone, nejo is bordered on the southeast by boji, on the west by jarso, on the northwest by mana sibu, and on the north and east by the benishangul-gumaz region. towns in nejo include gori, nejo and wara jiru.

coffee is an important cash crop of this woreda. over 5,000 hectares is planted with this crop.

based on figures published by the central statistical agency in 2005, this woreda has an estimated total population of 148,891, of whom 75,785 were males and 73,106 were females; 25,927 or 17.41% of its population are urban dwellers, which is greater than the zone average of 10.9%. with an estimated area of 984.07 square kilometers, nejo has an estimated population density of 151.3 people per square kilometer, which is greater than the zone average of 91.7.

 notes .






</doc>
<doc id="1192079" title="ernest beachcroft beckwith towse" nonfiltered="466" processed="457" dbindex="469">
ernest beachcroft beckwith towse (vc, kcvo, cbe)(23 april 1864-21 june 1948)  was an english recipient of the victoria cross, the highest and most prestigious award for gallantry in the face of the enemy that can be awarded to british and commonwealth forces.

details.
he was 35 years old, and a captain in the 1st battalion, the gordon highlanders, british army during the south african war (boer war) when the following deed took place for which he was awarded the vc.

on 11 december 1899 at magersfontein, south africa, during a retirement, captain towse helped a mortally wounded colonel and although close to the front of the firing line, supported him until help arrived. on 30 april 1900 captain towse and 12 men confronted a party of about 150 boers on the top of mount thaba, far from any support. the greatly outnumbered group were called on to surrender, but the captain ordered his men to open fire and remained firing himself until he was severely wounded (both eyes shattered) and they succeeded in driving off the enemy.

further information.
served in the first world war 1914-18. 

the medal.
his victoria cross is displayed at the gordon highlanders museum (aberdeen, scotland).

references.
monuments to courage (david harvey, 1999);
the register of the victoria cross (this england, 1997);
scotland's forgotten valour (graham ross, 1995);
victoria crosses of the anglo-boer war (ian uys, 2000);

external links.
location of grave and vc medal (oxfordshire);
 find-a-grave biography;









</doc>
<doc id="1840080" title="masaharu fukuyama" nonfiltered="467" processed="458" dbindex="470">

masaharu fukuyama (      born february 6, 1969), is a japanese singer-songwriter, actor, radio personality, and photographer from nagasaki, nagasaki prefecture. among fans, he is known as masha, masha-nii, or fuku-chan. he debuted in 1990 with single        and still remains active and popular to this date.

biography.
while he can also be seen in dramas fukuyama masaharu is best known for his singing career and remains popular among the japanese. since his debut in 1990, he steadily gained popularity. in 1993 he made his first appearance in k haku uta gassen, where only successful j-pop and enka artists are invited to perform. in 1994 he had his very first platinum selling single it's only love sorry baby. a year later, hello became his second single to sell over a million copies. squall, sakura zaka, and niji are few of the songs that have made particular outstanding marks in masaharu's career. good night was his breakout single which gained a lot more audiences to his music because of its tie-up with a drama. 

his hobby is biking and photography. in 2000, he was sent to sydney to cover the olympics by tv asahi as a photographer. he also has a late-night saturday radio show-allnight nippon. this versatile actor/ singer has also appeared in numerous advertisements such as panasonic, suzuki, suntory, fujifilm, xylish, and pocari sweat, and recently celebrated his 15 years in showbiz anniversary with a series of concerts.


 trivia .


when he washes his bath room, sometimes he spend all days. 

fukuyama, who was once a self-proclaimed heavy-smoker, has now quit smoking. the quality of his voice has shown marked improvement since, which is good news to all his fans.

discography.
albums.
      single collection 5    (2006) ;
 fukuyama masaharu  another works remixed by piston nishizawa (2006);
 fukuyama presents fukuyama masaharu 15th. anniversary album chuei yoshikawa acoustic fukuyamania (2005);
            thank you for...         (2004);
 magnum collection  slow (2003);
 the golden oldies (2002);
 f (2001);
 fukuyama presents magnum classics  kissin' in the holy night  (2000);
 mugnum collection 1999 "dear" (1999);
 fukuyama masaharu presents cx mon-9 drama "perfect love" original songs book  rendezvous1 original soundtrack (1999);
 sing a song (1998);
 birthday presents (1995);
 m-collection         (1995) ;
 on and on (1994) ;
 calling (1993);
 boots (1992);
 bros. (1991);
 lion (1991);
    (1990);

singles.
 milk tea/     (2006);
    (2005);
         /red\d7blue (2004);
   /      /         (2003);
 gang  (2001);
 hey! (2000);
    (sakurazaka) (2000);
 heaven/squall (1999);
 peach !! (1998);
 heart (1998);
 message (1995);
 hello (1995);
 it's only love/sorry baby (1994);
 all my loving/   (1993);
 melody/baby baby (1993);
      (1992);
 good night (1992);
 woh wow/         (1991);
         (1991);
      (1990);
        (1990);

dvds.
 fukuyama masaharu 15th anniversary special dvd box        !       !!   (2005);
             !! (2003);
 eggs (2001);
 fukuyamania (2001);
 start (2001);
 bros (2001);

external links.
fukuyama masaharu's official website (universal music);
fukuyama masaharu's official website (amuse inc.);
fukuyama masaharu suzuki talking f.m.;










</doc>
<doc id="5231906" title="red kress" nonfiltered="468" processed="459" dbindex="471">
ralph (red) kress (january 2, 1907 - november 29, 1962) was a shortstop and coach in major league baseball. from 1927 through 1946, he played for the st. louis browns (1927-1932), 1938-1939), chicago white sox (1932-1934), washington senators (1934-1936), detroit tigers (1939-1940) and new york giants (1946).  kress batted and threw right handed. he was born in columbia, california. 

playing career.

throughout his major league career, kress was known for his great disposition and perpetual motion. although he played mostly at shortstop, he showed his versatility playing every position but catcher and center fielder.  kress broke in the majors with the st. louis browns in the 1927 season. in 1929 he led american league shortstops in fielding percentage (.946) and double plays (94), and during three consecutive seasons he batted over .300 with over 100 runs batted in: .305 with 107 in 1929, .313 with 112 in 1930, and .311 with 114 in 1931, including a 22-game hitting-streak in 1930. despite his efforts, in 1932 he was traded by st. louis to the chicago white sox, who were unveiling luke appling at shortstop. kress therefore adapted to whatever position he had to play, even pitching, in detriment of his offensive production. in the 1934 midseason, he was sent by chicago to the washington senators.

with the senators, kress had to compete with joe cronin, who was not only the shortstop but the manager. then kress became an utility, playing in seven different positions, until cronin released him in 1936.

kress spent 1937 with the minneapolis millers of the american association, hitting .330 and leading the league shortstops in total chances. he was readquired by the browns before the 1938 season. again at shortstop, he responded with a .302 average and leading american league shortstops in fielding (.965). traded to the detroit tigers in 1939, he broke his leg during the season. in 1940, the american league champion tigers released the hard-luck kress, but he continued his career in the international league. 
 
during his minor league days with the toronto maple leafs, kress played a nine-inning game at nine different positions. while playing against the montreal royals in 1945, he pitched a no-hit, no run game  for eight one-third innings. but he lost in the ninth, 1 0, on a hit, walk and error.

in 1946, kress returned to the majors when he signed with the new york giants under manager mel ott. he retired at the end of the season. 
 
in a 14-season career, kress was a .286 hitter with 1454 hits, 298 doubles, 58 triples, 89 home runs, 691 runs, 799 rbi, and 47 stolen bases in 1391 games played.

as a shortstop, kress posted a .944 percentage as result of 1761 putouts, 2357 assists, and 243 errors in 4361 chances, and also made 558 double plays.

coaching career.
in 1947, kress started his coaching career with the giants. he coached with the indians for eight seasons (1953-60), then the angels in their maiden al season (1961), and also managed several minor league clubs, including the st. paul saints and sacramento solons.

kress came to new york again, this time to coach for the hapless 1962 mets under casey stengel. almost two months after the season was over, kress died from a heart attack in los angeles, california, at 55 years of age.

external links.
;
baseball library;
the deadball era;
vintage card traders;
when it was a game;















</doc>
<doc id="323188" title="raam" nonfiltered="469" processed="460" dbindex="472">

raam, is an attempt to create a global currency to eliminate world poverty, describing itself as the "global development currency of the global country of world peace."  the raam was established by maharishi global financing in the netherlands, which has targeted its use in farmers cooperatives in south america and africa for agricultural development.  it is an initiative of maharishi mahesh yogi, also famous for creating maharishi open university. 

it is currently used side by side with local currency in around 100 shops in the netherlands.  it can be exchanged at a rate of 10 euros for 1 raam nl.  200 million euro (20 million raam) of these notes have been printed, and these bonds are convertible at fortis bank in roermond, the netherlands. 

the raam can be acquired in maharishi vedic city, iowa, at the rate of us$10 for 1 raam.  the maharishi vedic city raam is identical to the dutch one except for a small yellow stamp "maharishi vedic city." 

it is unclear whether the maharishi vedic city raam is accepted, and, if so, at the same rate as the dutch raam. 

external links.
 raam web site;
 bbc article;
 article about raam and other 'complementary currencies';




</doc>
<doc id="2854783" title="anne hart" nonfiltered="470" processed="461" dbindex="473">
anne e. hart was an actress and dancer who had a successful stage career and appeared occasionally in cinema and television. she married her second husband ronnie corbett in 1965. they have two daughters: emma and sophie corbett.

external links.
;




</doc>
<doc id="4657706" title="carlos gallis\e1" nonfiltered="471" processed="462" dbindex="474">
carlos gallis\e1 bisbal is a puerto rican independence movement leader.

gallis\e1 practiced labor law after graduating from the university of puerto rico. he was elected to the house of representatives as a member of the puerto rican independence party (pip) in 1972. in 1973 he left the pip to join the more radical puerto rican socialist party (psp). in 1983, gallis\e1 became general secretary of the psp.

following the disbanding of the psp in 1993, gallis\e1 became a leader of the new puerto rican independence movement and later the hostosian national independence movement. he is also a columnist for the newspaper claridad ("clarity") and a regular news commentator on "fuego cruzado" ("crossfire"), a radio program aired by wskn-am in san juan, puerto rico.

external links.
claridad web site;
fuego cruzado web site;




</doc>
<doc id="2543320" title="showtime (album)" nonfiltered="472" processed="463" dbindex="475">

showtime is the second album from british grime star dizzee rascal. it has sold over his first album (around 150,000 copies sold). 

track listing.
"showtime";
"stand up tall";
"everywhere";
"graftin'";
"learn";
"hype talk";
"face";
"respect me";
"get by";
"knock, knock";
"dream";
"girls";
"imagine";
"flyin'";
"fickle";




</doc>
<doc id="7542144" title="advance health directive" nonfiltered="473" processed="464" dbindex="476">
in australian law, the advance care directive (adh) is a legal document that stipulates instructions and/or consent to future medical procedures. the adh is valid only when and if the person giving the directive is unable to provide consent. examples of inability to consent include coma, demensia and brain death. the adh has implications in deciding whether to continue life support, perform medical tests, operations or any other 'extraordinary treatment'.

relevant acts.
the concept of an advance health directive is defined in the powers of attorney act of 1998 and guardianship and administration act of 2000.

medicolegal issues.
please expand

ethical issues.
please expand

external links.
qld government information on adh;
qld government hosted legislation website;



</doc>
<doc id="4162490" title="faculty of medicine of memorial university of newfoundland" nonfiltered="474" processed="465" dbindex="477">
faculty of medicine of memorial university of newfoundland is one of two medical schools located in atlantic canada and one of seventeen in canada.

established in 1967 by dr. ian rusted, the school has 150 graduate students enrolled in programs such as:

 md-phd degree;
 diploma in community health;
 clinical epidemiology and post-secondary studies (health professional education);

the faculty is supported by area hospitals:

 health sciences centre in st. john s ;
 janeway children s hospital;
 h. bliss murphy cancer centre, the telemedicine centre;
 centre for offshore and remote medicine (medicor);

other faculties and labs with links to medicine include:

 schools of nursing and pharmacy;
 terry fox cancer research laboratories;

references.

 history of the faculty of medicine;

personnel of the faculty of medicine;









</doc>
<doc id="1904725" title="robert kerlan" nonfiltered="475" processed="466" dbindex="478">
dr. robert k. kerlan (may 13, 1922 - september 8, 1996) was an american orthopedic surgeon and the co-founder, along with dr. frank jobe, of the kerlan-jobe orthopaedic clinic.  kerlan was the los angeles dodgers' first team doctor after their move from brooklyn to los angeles in 1958, and diagnosed dodgers pitcher sandy koufax with traumatic arthritis in his left elbow.

kerlan died in santa monica, california at age 74.








</doc>
<doc id="9126454" title="melissa holt" nonfiltered="476" processed="467" dbindex="479">

better known by those who know her as meshy.  a strong new zealand cyclist whose career has been troubled by bad luck.  most recently, in the new zealand elite time trial national championships, holt punctured while up 30 seconds on the field with 2km to go in the race.  other periods of bad luck include crashing and breaking her collarbone in the 2006 commonwealth games in melbourne after a rider went down in front of her.  in the 2004 olympic games in athens, holt had to pull out of the race due to cramps.  





</doc>
<doc id="4415070" title="caater" nonfiltered="477" processed="468" dbindex="480">
caater is a euro-dance duo of kalle kukk and markku tiidumaa from tallinn,estonia. caater is signed with sony music.

in 1999, caater was awarded the "kuldne plaat" (gold record) at the estonian music awards for the single, o si ne ne. that year it also was named band of the year and album of the year.

discography.
albums.
 contact (1998);
 freakshow (1998);
 space invasion (1998);
 millennium: the best of caater (1999);

 king size (2001);
 club space (2002);
 queen of the night (2003);

singles.
 o si ne ne (1999);
 hold that sucker down (2000);
 phantom (2000);
 dance with you (2000);
 free my body (2001);
 king size (2001);
 enjoy the silence (2002);
 master tune (2002);
 the queen of the night (2003);

external links.
 official website;
 estmusic;





</doc>
<doc id="3495357" title="felipe giaffone" nonfiltered="478" processed="469" dbindex="481">
felipe giaffone (pronounced: ; born january 22, 1975 in s\e3o paulo) is a driver in the indy racing league. a second generation driver, he came to the united states to drive in the indy lights series in 1999 where he was coached by formula 1 legend and countryman nelson piquet. he began racing in the irl in 2001 and won one race at kentucky speedway in 2002. in 2003 felipe was one of the irl's representatives in the iroc series, but he only competed in two races due to injury and finished 10th in series standings. in 2005 felipe made a last minute deal with a.j. foyt to qualify a third car for him in the indianapolis 500. with minutes to spare, giaffone bumped arie luyendyk jr. from the field. starting in the final 33rd starting position, he avoided attrition and finished 15th. with a.j.'s grandson a.j. foyt iv leaving the irl for nascar in 2006, a.j. the elder chose giaffone to be his full time driver for the 2006 season but he was released after eight races due to what foyt called "communication problems".

indycar career results.


indy 500 results.













</doc>
<doc id="3457704" title="florida state road 932" nonfiltered="479" processed="470" dbindex="482">
a major east-west commercial artery in northern miami-dade county,  state road 932 is a 10-mile-long four-lane highway connecting us 27/sr 25 in hialeah gardens and sr 915 in miami shores, just south of the campus of barry university.  locally, sr 932 is also known as northwest 103rd street, west 49th street, palm springs mile, east 49th street, and northeast 103rd street. 

in addition to the cities at the termini, sr 932 serves hialeah; medley lies across the miami canal from the western terminus;  liberty city and biscayne park are within a quarter mile of the eastern terminus.  the part of sr 932 in hialeah and hialeah gardens is almost completely lined with commercial establishments (next to its interchange with the palmetto expressway (sr 826) is westland mall, one of the oldest enclosed shopping centers in florida; across the street is miami dade college   hialeah campus). east of red road/sr 823 (west 4th avenue in hialeah), sr 932 is almost entirely lined with suburban developments.  

while westland mall has been relatively unchanged since its opening in the late 1960s, hialeah near sr 932 has evolved greatly in the past four decades.  dairy farms have given way to shopping centers and residential housing developments; hialeah s population has grown from 67,000 in 1960 to 226,400 in 2000.  state road 932 s connection with the palmetto expressway has similarly evolved from a little-used at-grade intersection in the mid-1960s to a diamond interchange in the 1970s that was often overwhelmed in the 1990s and augmented by a flyover ramp in the 2000s.  in contrast to the now-congested western end, the eastern end of sr 932 hasn t seen significant change in traffic since the 1960s.

originally state road 850, sr 932 received its current designation from the florida department of transportation in 1983 as part of a statewide reassignment of florida state road numbers.








</doc>
<doc id="1767711" title="canadian academy" nonfiltered="480" processed="471" dbindex="483">


canadian academy (ca) is an independent pre-k-12 international school located in kobe, japan on the man-made rokko island.  the school is accredited by the us-based western association of schools and colleges (wasc) and is certified to award both international baccalaureate and us high school diplomas.  the curriculum is in english.

high school courses.

english: four english credits are required to graduate from canadian academy. students must take introduction to literature in 9th grade and world literature in 10th grade. from 11th grade to 12th grade, students have the choice of taking either ib english a1 hl, ib english a1 sl, or a sequence of four semester courses focusing on literature and literary skills.

mathematics: the mathematics courses taken by students are based on their ability in math classes. in 9th grade, students either take algebra i or geometry. which class they take depends on what class they took in their 8th grade year. if a student has completed algebra i in 8th grade, the student will proceed into geometry. however, if a student took pre-algebra in 8th grade, the student will move on to algebra i. in 10th grade, students will move up one class. geometry students will take algebra ii or algebra ii/trig. algebra i students will move onto geometry.  in 11th and 12th grade, students will either take ib mathematics sl or ib mathematics hl. however, ib math studies and ap calculus are also offered, and those classes can be taken instead.

modern languages: french, japanese and spanish are taught as modern languages at canadian academy. french and spanish are taught in five levels, i, ii, iii, ib year 1 and ib year 2. japanese, however, due to greater demand is taught at many different levels according to the students ability.  ib courses for japanese include ib japanese a2 hl, ib japanese a2 sl, and ib japanese abinitio.

science: three science credits are required for graduation, however many students usually graduate with many more.  in 9th and 10th grade, students take three science class (biology, chemistry and physics) each lasting two-thirds of the year.  this will allow students to see what science(s) they would like to pursue in their junior and senior year. for 11th and 12th grade, ib biology hl/sl, ib chemistry hl/sl and ib physics sl are offered.

social studies: three social studies credits are required, and usually two credits are completed by the end of 10th grade. in 9th grade, students are required to take asian history, and in 10th grade, students are required to take introduction to history and economics. this 10th grade class will prepare students for ib history and ib economics, which are both 2-year courses. japanese history and u.s. history are also available courses; however, they are not ib courses.

early learning and activities center.

canadian academy has embarked on a major expansion of its present facilities, the first since it moved to its current campus. an early learning and activites center is being built and will be completed by spring 2008. 

external links.
canadian academy website;
early learning and activities center pages






</doc>
<doc id="2416793" title="m621 motorway" nonfiltered="481" processed="472" dbindex="484">



the m621 motorway is a short motorway in england. it takes traffic from the m1 and m62 motorways into the centre of leeds.

the start of the motorway at gildersome does not have a junction number, but is at junction 27 of the m62.

list of junctions.



junctions 7 and 8 are actually very close to each other, and both join the same road! (from different directions).

the motorway ends at junction 43 of the m1, without its own junction number. the m1 actually branches off from itself here-the main line of the road is the m621. this junction is also restricted-movements are as follows:
m1 northbound-m1 eastbound.
m1 westbound-m1 southbound.
m1 northbound-m621 northbound.
m621 southbound-m1 southbound.
the a61/a639 link junctions 7/8 of the m621 with junction 44 of the m1, enabling m1 westbound-m621 westbound and m621 eastbound to m1 eastbound movements to be made.

originally the m621 from the current junction 43 of the m1 to junction 3 of the m621 was the m1. both roads terminated at the dewsbury road interchange and were not linked. the m1/m621 in their present form were created when the m1-a1 link road was built, and this was numbered as the m1.

external links.
 cbrd motorway database - m621;







</doc>
<doc id="3168336" title="ellen joyce loo" nonfiltered="482" processed="473" dbindex="486">


ellen joyce loo (traditional chinese:    ) is a member of the hong kong musical group at17. she was born in canada on 27th march, 1986. loo learned classical guitar from her father since the age of nine. she entered the musical competition "original music 2000" (  2000) in hong kong and won third prize. loo was later signed by the music production company people mountain people sea and formed the group at17 with eman lam . 

apart from writing songs for her own group, she is also involved in the production and song writing of other singers' albums such as miriam yeung, sally yeh and ken chu. 

publication.
lost. escape. rockmiuology - a collection of the photographs she took over 3 years of her life prior the publication, accompanied by series of writings (in english). 240 pages, published by youth culture (    ) in july 2006, hong kong, isbn 988-99184-0-4;

 i learned the chords at seventeen, collection of 22 originals guitar scores from at17s songs, transcribed by loo in both staff and guitar tablature. 2005, published by people mountain people sea / kubrick, hong kong, isbn 988-97905-7-2;

trivia.
 loo used her bryan adams custom-made guild jumbo box acoustic guitar in almost every concert before 2004.

external links.

 at17's official website (in chinese) ;
 http://www.at17.net (in chinese);











</doc>
<doc id="4954087" title="diamonds as an investment" nonfiltered="483" processed="474" dbindex="487">
 

for the physical properties and applications of diamonds, please see diamond.;
this article discusses buying diamonds as an investment.


history.
diamonds have been treasured as gemstones since their use as religious icons in india at least 2,500 years ago.  their industrial usage in drill bits and engraving tools also dates to early human history.  popularity of diamonds has risen since the 19th century because of increased supply, improved cutting, polishing techniques, and growth in the world economy. diamonds are not normally used as a mainline store of value during times of crisis, due to their lack of fungibility and low liquidity. however, they may still be useful during times of hyperinflation.

approximately 20% of mined diamonds are used in jewelry and 80% for industrial uses (such as lasers, drill bits and surgical equipment).

chemical vapor deposition is now used to produce cultured diamonds which, unlike diamond simulants, require very close inspection to distinguish them from natural diamonds.

diamond price.
historically, the wholesale diamond price has been controlled by de beers group, who have an estimated 45 to 50% of the market. botswana is currently the largest producer of diamonds with mines operated by debswana, a joint venture between de beers and the botswana government. however, over the last decade other producers have developed new mines, in russia and canada for example, challenging de beers' dominance (historically de beers market share has been 80%). de beers raised diamond prices three times in 2004 by a total of 14%.

the united states is the biggest consumer of diamonds in the world. the u.s. account for 35% of diamond sales, hong kong 26%, belgium 15% (antwerp is the world's diamond-trading centre), japan 6%, and israel 4%. the price of diamonds fluctuate with global demand and the world economy. for example there was a slump in demand during the great depression.

diamond prices vary widely depending on a diamond's carat, color, clarity, cut and shape.  unlike for precious metals, there is no universal world price per gram for diamonds.

methods of investing in diamonds.
polished diamonds.

polished and rough diamonds are not ideal investment vehicles. lack of liquidity is often cited as a main reason, but the lack of homogeneity and fungibility are more important. grading and certification by recognised laboratories goes some way to redressing this. weight and cutting proportions are parameters which can be precisely measured. colour and clarity grades are parameters which need to be determined by gemologists. 

the increasing quality and size, and decreasing price, of synthetic diamonds also presents a threat to the value of polished diamonds as a long-term investment. the possibility of low-cost ultra-high-quality diamonds becoming available in industrial quantities at some time in the future is not an encouraging prospect for long-term investors in diamonds. 

a cautionary example of such a price fall caused by introduction of a new simulant strongly undermining the prices of a natural gem was the permanent fall in natural pearl prices with the introduction of cultured pearls. the mechanism by which prices were affected is complex. in part because of the social acceptability of wearing cultured pearls to much of the market, customers migrated from the natural to the lower priced cultured product. this altered the supply and demand situation for natural pearls and perhaps the overall prestige of pearls in general was lowered. where synthetic stones are less socially acceptable to the market for the natural version, arguably as with synthetic corundums where the two markets, natural and synthetic are mostly separate, the prestige of the natural stones has been, with effort, retained. thus increased availability and lowered prices of synthetics may or may not have major implications for the future price of natural diamonds.  11:36, 5 february 2007 (utc)

there are several factors contributing to low liquidity of diamonds. one of the main is the lack of terminal market. most commodities have terminal markets, and some form of commodities exchange, clearing house, and central storage facilities. this does not exist for diamonds. diamonds are also subject to value added tax in the uk, eu, and sales tax in most developed countries, therefore reducing their effectiveness as an investment medium. most diamonds are sold through retail stores at very high profit margins. this is due to high overhead costs of operating a jewelry retail store.

as diamonds in larger sizes become increasingly rare and valuable, any easily visible and readily understood pricing system has been difficult to establish. martin rapaport produces the rapaport diamond report, which lists prices for polished diamonds. the rapaport diamond report is relatively expensive to subscribe, and is of course copyright, and as such is not readily available to consumers and investors. each month, there are matrices of diamond prices for round brilliant cut diamonds, by colour and clarity within size bands, and also other shapes. the price matrix for brilliant cuts alone exceed 1,400 entries, and even this is achieved only by grouping some grades together. there are considerable price shifts near the edges of the size bands, so a 0.49 ct stone may list at $5,500 per carat = $2,695, while a 0.50 ct stone of similar quality lists at $7,500 per carat = $3,750. this may appear such a large difference as to defy logic, but in reality stones near the top of a size band tend to be uprated slightly. some of the price jumps are related to marketing and consumer expectations. somebody expecting a 1 carat diamond solitaire engagement ring may be unprepared to accept a 0.99 carat diamond.

there are numerous diamond grading laboratories, and there is no easy way for investors, consumers, or even dealers to know the relative competence and integrity of each. even the market-leading gemological institute of america (gia) suffered embarrassment recently when a small number of large, important and valuable diamonds were overgraded, resulting in legal action by one dealer against the dealer who had submitted them to the gia for grading. a number of gia employees left after the scandal emerged, and the gia has changed a number of its procedures. there are also a number of laboratories affiliated to cibjo. there must be commercial pressure on all labs to upgrade marginal stones or lose business to other labs who are prepared to reduce standards.

leaving the concept of fungibility to those expert economists who understand it, the non-linear pricing of different sizes (weights), means that it is not realistic to exchange, for example, 2 quarter carats for 1 half carat, even if their relative values can be calculated. with commodities such as gold, it is clear that 1 twenty gram bar is worth the same as 2 ten gram bars, assuming the same quality. in most terminal markets, there needs to be a readily available standard quality, or limited number of qualities, available in sufficient quantity to be tradable. it is this factor which affect liquidity. there are far too many variables in diamond quality, and an almost infinite graduation of each quality parameter.

there are fashion and marketing elements to take into consideration. de beers expends marketing efforts to encourage sales of diamond sizes and qualities which are being produced in relatively large quantities. they have also been known to take steps to discourage investment, primarily because they perceive, probably correctly, that bubble prices which are followed by sharp falls, are bad for long term consumer confidence in diamonds as a long-term store of value. diamonds are primarily a consumer item.

the main positive investment parameter of diamonds is their high value per unit weight, which makes them easy to store and transport. a high quality diamond weighing as little a 2 or 3 grams could be worth as much as 100 kilos of gold. this extremely condensed value and portability does bestow diamonds as a form of emergency disaster fund. people and populations displaced by war or extreme upheaval have utilised this property successfully, and presumably will do so again in the future.

the arguments given mean that it is almost certain that diamonds can never be commoditized sufficiently to allow efficient and sufficiently liquid markets. this does not mean however that diamonds can never be used or considered as investments. the very lack of liquidity itself could be used by a speculator who was prepared to make a market in diamonds. any such investor would need to ensure that he maintained sufficient personal liquidity to avoid distress selling, except by others. such an investor would need to expend effort to market his stock, and to advertise his readiness to buy and would effectively become a trader rather than investor.

mining companies.

these do not represent diamonds at all, but rather are shares in companies that mine diamonds.  the largest diamond company in the world is de beers, which is jointly owned by anglo american (45%), the oppenheimer family (40%) and the botswana government (15%).

aber diamond corporation ("aber") shares have significantly outperformed the s&p 500 ("gspc") since 1993 .

taxation.
as with any asset that appreciates in value, capital gains tax may apply for individuals. diamonds are subject to value added tax in the uk, eu, and sales tax in most developed countries.

references.
 diamonds are big in the north - 2003 article from northern news services online;
 have you ever tried to sell a diamond? - the atlantic monthly  february 1982;
 epstein, edward jay (1982). "the diamond invention" (complete book, includes "chapter 20: have you ever tried to sell a diamond?");

see also.
 gold as an investment;
 silver as an investment;
 commodity fetishism;

external links.
 hoge raad voor diamant (diamond high council) - antwerp world diamond centre;
 world diamond council;
 investing in diamonds - 2004 article from moneyweek;
 diamond prices index - tracks average retail diamond prices from online jewelers;
 diamonds as an investment - information from chard, a coin and jewelry dealer;




</doc>
<doc id="5838308" title="arp solus" nonfiltered="484" processed="475" dbindex="488">


external links.

 pdf manual;
 sonicstate;
 vintagesynth;






the solus is basically a slimmed down odyssey mk-2. its similar to the axxe mk-2 but it has 2 vco's and a pitch bend knob instead of arp's ppc rubber pads. both vco's have a waveform control. it was built into a semi-flight-case and even the interfacing was inside the case lid. the keys do not stick out like on the odyssey mk-3.

</doc>
<doc id="3751069" title="ohalo" nonfiltered="485" processed="476" dbindex="489">
 
ohalo is the common designation for the ohalo ii archaeological site, the remains of an approximately 23,000 year old campsite on the southern shores of the sea of galilee (kinneret lake) in present-day northern israel.

discovery.

the usually submerged campsite was only discovered in 1989 after a lengthy regional drought, after the shoreline of the kinneret lake had receded.

dating.

radiometric dates (average 19,500 b.p., calibrated ca. 23,000 b.p.) place the occupation of the campsite at the last cold peak of the last ice age.

discoveries.

due to almost optimum preservation conditions in its subaquatic environment, the campsite and an exceptionally wide variety of associated material remains of daily activities have been revealed in situ. the discoveries include the remains of the oldest brush huts yet found in the world, concentrations of open-air hearths, a burial and other installations.

external links.

ohalo ii campsite - website maintained by the university of haifa;







</doc>
<doc id="3100415" title="honda cb350f" nonfiltered="486" processed="477" dbindex="490">

the honda cb350 was a four-cylinder four-stroke 348cc motorcycle based on the larger versions of the day and was thought of as hondas "one-up" to the other motorcycle companies. it was produced from 1972-74. soon after produdtion was discontinued, it was replaced by the cb400. although honda had a 350 twin that critics said was more powerful, lighter, cheaper, many felt the 350 was a faster, smoother running, and more stylish. the model to this date remains one of the smallest and most sophisticated mass produced four-cylinder designs. the 350f and 400f models have since gained a cult following in the motorcycle community.


statistics
 redline: 10,000rpm;
 top speed: 97mph;
 power: 34hp@10,000rpm;






</doc>
<doc id="9083685" title="national bank & trust co." nonfiltered="487" processed="478" dbindex="491">


the national bank & trust co. building is located on illinois route 64 as it passes through historic downtown sycamore, illinois. the building is part of the sycamore historic district which was designated and added to the national register of historic places in may 1978. the building was constructed in 1925 and designed by the chicago architecture firm of weary & alford.

notes.


 



</doc>
<doc id="4957334" title="cotswold outdoor" nonfiltered="488" processed="479" dbindex="492">

cotswold outdoor ltd (formally cotswold camping and cotswold essential outdoors) is primarily an adventure recreation retailer. founded in 1974, the company originated in the cotswolds, from which the founders sold a range of basic camping accessories. cotswold outdoor now has 21 stores nationwide, and a highly successful mail order service selling outdoor clothing, camping and climbing equipment, travel and active clothing, hiking boots, adventure racing gear and much more.

9feet.com.
9feet.com, a former internet retailer, is now owned by cotswold outdoor. the 9feet.com domain currently forwards to cotswoldoutdoor.com.

sponsorships.
9feet.com had become famous by sponsoring mountain bike trails, although most people were unaware of which industry 9feet.com was a part.

9feet.com sponsored the construction of the penhydd trail at afan forest park. the cost of the construction is estimated at circa \a320,000. 9feet.com also sponsored the maintenance of penhydd trail and the wall trail, both at afan forest park.




</doc>
<doc id="2071839" title="membranous nephritis" nonfiltered="489" processed="480" dbindex="493">

membranous nephropathy (or membranous nephritis, or membranous glomerulonephritis) is an immunologic renal disorder characterized by subepithelial immune deposits in the glomerular capillary wall.  the subepithelial deposits are antigen-antibody complexes.  they are formed by antibodies against cationic antigens crossing the anionic glomerular barrier or by circulating antigens.  although primary membranous predominantly has subepithelial deposits, secondary membranous may be characterized by subendothelial deposits and mesangial deposits.  rheumatoid arthritis itself can be associated with secondary mn.  drugs associated with rheumatoid arthritis such as penicillamine, gold salts, and some nsaids (such as diclofenac) can also be associated with membranous nephritis.  other diseases associated with mn include lupus nephritis (who class v), sjogren's disease, sarcoidosis, hepatitis b virus, hepatitis c virus.  the only mn with a low complement level are lupus nephritis and hepatitis b virus (associated with elevated transaminases, hepatitis b antigens).  

diagnosis.
membranous nephritis can be diagnosed by histological observation.  light microscopy with h&e stain may reveal thickened capillary walls.  fluorescence microscopy may reveal immunoglobulins in a granular pattern along the capillary wall.  jones (silver stain) may reveal spikes or holes corresponding to the immune deposits.  electron microscopy reveals electron dense deposits intramembranously or in the subepithelial space.  

prognosis.
the prognosis for membranous nephritis is variable.  in many cases, there is spontaneous remission.  therefore, many patients will not require treatment.   however, in patients who have decreasing renal function and a high level of proteinuria (nephrotic range, and often around 10g), therapy using steroids and cytotoxics may be necessary.  cyclophosphamide and steroids have been used in some studies with success.  in refractory cases, ciclosporin may also be useful.



</doc>
<doc id="572404" title="parti pr\e9sidentiel" nonfiltered="490" processed="481" dbindex="494">
the parti pr\e9sidentiel was a political party in quebec, canada. it was founded on may 5, 1974 by former liberal party of quebec member of the national assembly yvon dupuis. dupuis founded the party after resigning from the leadership of the ralliement cr\e9ditiste du qu\e9bec. dupuis resigned from the leadership later in 1974, and was replaced by yvon brochu.  on may 31, 1975, the party merged with the union nationale party.

see also.
politics of quebec;
list of quebec general elections;
national assembly of quebec;
timeline of quebec history;
list of political parties in quebec;








</doc>
<doc id="162183" title="ieee-488" nonfiltered="491" processed="482" dbindex="495">

ieee-488 is a short-range, digital communications bus specification.  it was originally created for use with automated test equipment, and is still in wide use for that purpose.  ieee-488 is also commonly known as hp-ib (hewlett-packard instrument bus) and gpib (general purpose interface bus).

design.
ieee-488 allows up to 15 devices to share a single 8-bit parallel electrical bus by daisy chaining connections.  the slowest device participates in control and data transfer handshakes to determine the speed of the transaction.  the maximum data rate is about one mbyte/sec in the original standard, and about 8 mbyte/sec with ieee-488.1-2003 (hs-488). 

the ieee-488 bus employs 16 signal lines   eight bi-directional used for data transfer, three for handshake, and five for bus management   plus eight ground return lines.

history.
in the late 1960s, hewlett-packard (hp) was a manufacturer of test and measurement instruments, such as digital multimeters and logic analyzers.  hp developed the hp interface bus (hp-ib) to enable easier interconnection between instruments and controllers such as computers.  the bus was relatively easy to implement using the technology at the time, using a simple parallel electrical bus and several individual control lines.

other manufacturers copied hp-ib, calling their implementation the general purpose interface bus (gpib).

in 1975 the bus was standardized by the institute of electrical and electronics engineers as the ieee standard digital interface for programmable instrumentation, ieee-488-1975 (now 488.1).  ieee-488.1 formalized the mechanical, electrical, and basic protocol parameters of gpib, but said nothing about the format of commands or data.  the ieee-488.2 standard, codes, formats, protocols, and common commands for ieee-488.1 (june 1987), provided for basic syntax and format conventions, as well as device-independent commands, data structures, error protocols, and the like.  ieee-488.2 built on -488.1 without superceeding it; equipment can conform to -488.1 without following -488.2.

while ieee-488.1 defined the hardware, and ieee-488.2 defined the syntax, there was still no standard for instrument-specific commands.  commands to control the same class of instrument (e.g., multimeters) would vary between manufactuers and even models.  a standard for device commands, scpi, was introduced in the 1990s.  due to the late introduction, it has not been universally implemented.

national instruments introduced a backwards-compatible extension to ieee-488.1, originally known as hs-488.  it increased the maximum data rate to 8 mbyte/sec, although the rate decreases as more devices are connected to the bus.  this was incorporated into the standard in 2003, as ieee-488.1-2003.

in addition to the ieee, several other standards committees have adopted hp-ib.  the american national standards institute's corresponding standard is known as ansi standard mc 1.1, and the international electrotechnical commission has its iec publication 625-1.

applications.
at the outset, hp-ib's designers didn't specifically plan for ieee-488 to be a standard peripheral interface for general-purpose computers.  by 1977 the commodore pet/cbm range of educational/home/personal computers connected their disk drives, printers, modems, etc, by ieee-488 bus. all of commodore's post-pet/cbm 8-bit machines, from the vic-20 to the c128, utilized a proprietary 'serial ieee-488' for peripherals, with round din connectors instead of the heavy-duty hp-ib plugs or a card-edge connector plugging into the motherboard (for pet computers).

hewlett-packard and tektronix also used ieee-488 as a peripheral interface to connect disk drives, tape drives, printers, plotters etc. to their workstation products and hp's hp 3000 minicomputers.  while the bus speed was increased to 10 mbyte/s for such applications, the lack of command protocol standards limited third-party offerings and interoperability, and later, faster, open standards such as scsi eventually superseded ieee-488 for peripheral access.

additionally, some of hp's advanced pocket calculators/computers of the 1980s, such as the hp-41 and hp-71 series, could work with various instrumentation via an optional hp-ib interface. the interface would connect to the calculator via an optional hp-il module.

signals.


 connectors .
 ieee-488 .

ieee-488 uses 24-pin amphenol-designed micro ribbon connectors (often incorrectly termed centronics-type), most commonly in a stackable male/female combination that allows for easy daisy-chaining by stacking cables.  mechanical considerations limit the number of stacked connectors to four or less.  they are held in place by screws, which come in uts (now largely obsolete) or metric (m3.5\d70.6) threads.  by convention, metric screws are colored black, as the two threads do not mate.  total cable length is limited to 20 metres, although non-standard "bus extender" devices are available.

iec-625.

the iec-625 standard prescribes the use of 25-pin d-subminiature connectors (the same are used for parallel ports on pcs).  this standard did not gain significant market acceptance against the established 24-pin connector.

see also.
 hp series 80;
 rocky mountain basic;

external links.
 ieee standards;
 ieee-488.1: standard digital interface for programmable instrumentation;
 ieee-488.2: standard codes, formats, protocols, and common commands for use with ieee-488.1;
 press release on ieee 488.1-2003, which allows for higher speeds;
 a gpib tutorial (mirror) from transera corporation;
 tutorials, application notes, and sample programs from ics electronics (index is html; content is pdf);
 from national instruments (ni):
 history of gpib;
 gpib resources;
 gpib hardware and software specifications;
 hs-488, which became ieee-488.1-2003;
 an overview of the gpib;
 linux gpib drivers and libraries;
 ke5fx gpib toolkit, several freeware gpib applications for windows;
 from http://www.bitsavers.org:
 tutorial description of hp-ib (5mb pdf);
 cs/80 (5mb pdf);
 subset/80 (ss/80) (8mb pdf);
 python wrapper for ni gpib;
 using matlab software with gpib to configure and control instruments;














</doc>
<doc id="253092" title="governor of vermont" nonfiltered="492" processed="483" dbindex="496">


the governor of vermont is the executive magistrate of the u.s. state of vermont. the governor is elected by direct voting every two years for a term of equal length. the current governor of vermont is jim douglas. a list of governors of vermont details each of vermont's governors since the founding of the vermont republic in 1777, through admission to the federal union in 1791, to the present. the governor's working offices are located in the pavilion in montpelier, vermont. the governor's ceremonial office, used during the legislative session of vermont's general assembly, is located in the vermont state house. 

constitutional role.
the constitution of vermont defines the governor's role as follows:

\a7 20. governor; executive power
the governor, and in the governor's absence, the lieutenant-governor, shall have power to commission all officers, and also to appoint officers, except where provision is, or shall be, otherwise made by law or this frame of government; and shall supply every vacancy in any office, occasioned by death or otherwise, until the office can be filled in the manner directed by law or this constitution. the governor is to correspond with other states, transact business with officers of government, civil and military, and prepare such business as may appear necessary, to lay before the general assembly. the governor shall have power to grant pardons and remit fines in all cases whatsoever, except in treason in which the governor shall have power to grant reprieves, but not to pardon, until after the end of the next session of the general assembly; and except in cases of impeachment, in which the governor shall not grant reprieve or pardon, and there shall be no remission, or mitigation of punishment, but by act of legislation. the governor is also to take care that the laws be faithfully executed. the governor is to expedite the execution of such measures as may be resolved upon by the general assembly. and the governor may draw upon the treasury for such sums as may be appropriated by the general assembly. the governor may also lay embargoes, or prohibit the exportation of any commodity, for any time not exceeding thirty days, in the recess of the general assembly only. the governor may grant such licenses as shall be directed by law; and shall have power to call together the general assembly, when necessary, before the day to which they shall stand adjourned. the governor shall be captain-general and commander-in-chief of the forces of the state, but shall not command in person, in time of war, or insurrection, unless by the advice and consent of the senate, and no longer than they shall approve thereof. and the lieutenant-governor shall, by virtue of office, be lieutenant-general of all the forces of the state.


 



</doc>
<doc id="249844" title="list of slovenian mathematicians" nonfiltered="493" processed="484" dbindex="497">
this is a list of the most famous slovenian mathematicians.


a b c  d e f g h i j k l m n o p r s \a6 t u v z \b4

 a .

 anton ambschel (1749 - 1821);

 b .

 vladimir batagelj (1948 -);
 andrej bauer (1971 -);
 andrej blejec (1953 -);
 marijan blejec (1919 - 1992);
 marko boben (1973 - );
 ludvik bogataj;
 zvonimir bohte (1935 -);
 janko bra i ;
 franc breckerfeld (1681 - 1744);
 matev\b8 bren (1954 -);
 silvo breskvar (1902 - 1969);
 bo\a8tjan bre\a8ar;
 matej bre\a8ar (1963 -);
 andrej brodnik (1961 -);

 c .

 anton cedilnik;
 matija cencelj;
 andrej cergol (1595 - 1645);
 jaka cimpri ;

   .
 miran  erne;

 d .
 france dacar;
 mirko dobovi\a8ek;
 roman drnov\a8ek;

 f .
 ivan dizma florjan i  (1691 - 1757);
 franc forstneri ;

 g .

 franc gali  (1929 - 1982);
 josip globevnik (1945 -);
 darja govekar;
 josip grasselli (1924 -);
 janko gravner;

 h .

 izidor hafner;
 ferdinand avgu\a8tin hallerstein (1703 - 1774);
 herman of carinthia (circa 1100 - circa 1160) ;
 milan hladnik;
 franc ho evar (1853 - 1919);
 du\a8an hvalica;

 i .

 stane indihar;

 j .

 rajko jamnik (1924 - 1983);
 fran jeran (1881 - 1954);
 aleksandar juri\a8i ;
 martin juvan;

k .

 milan kac (1924 -);
 sandi klav\b8ar (1962 -);
 igor klep;
 andrej kobav (1593 - 1654);
 toma\b8 ko\a8ir;
 joahim ko\a8utnik (1714 - 1789);
 jernej kozak (1946 -);
 edvard kramar;
 josip kri\b8an (1841 - 1921);
 france kri\b8ani  (1928 - 2002);
 bogdan kru\a8i ;
 igor kukavica;
 klemen kukec (???? - 1541);
 karel kunc (1879 - 1950);
 ivan ku\a8 er (1918 - 2000);

 l .

 ivo lah (1896 - 1979);
 vito lampret;
 boris lavri ;
 franc lebedinec;
 peter legi\a8a (1950 -);
 gorazd le\a8njak;

m .

 bojan magajna;
 joze male\a8i ;
 aleksander malni  (1954 -);
 dragan maru\a8i  (1953 -);
 miklav\b8 mastin\a8ek;
 bla\b8 matek (1855 - 1910);
 josip mazi;
 pavlina mizori - oblak;
 \a6tefan mo ilnik (1928 -);
 franc mo nik (1814 - 1892);
 bojan mohar;
 ivan molinaro (1903 -);
 ne\b8ka mramor - kosta;
 janez mr un;

 o .

 matjaz omladi  (1950 -);
 bojan orel;

 p .

 du\a8an pagon (1955 - );
 bernard pergerl (1440 - 1501);
 andrej perlah (1490 - 1551);
 peter petek (1944 -);
 marko petkov\a8ek(1955 -);
 toma\b8 pisanski (1949 -);
 josip plemelj (1873 - 1967);
 bor plestenjak;
 primo\b8 poto nik (1971 -);
 jo\b8e pov\a8i  (1907 - 1985);
 andreja prijatelj (1953 - 2002);
 niko prijatelj (1922 - 2003);
 ivan pucelj;

 r .

 janez rakovec;
 marko razpet;
 du\a8an repov\a8 (1954 -);
 viljem rupnik;

s .

 oton sajovic (1907 - 1996);
 janez krstnik schoettl (1724 - 1777);
 tomislav skubic (1930 - 1996);
 marko sodnig (1729 - 1800);
 jo\b8ef stefan (1835 - 1893);
 bo\a8tjan steiner (1680 - 1748);
 rok stra\a8ek (1972 -);
 anton suhadolc;

 \a6 .

 peter \a6emrl;
 marjeta \a6kapin-rugelj;
 ivan \a6talec (1910 - 1994);

 t .

 karl tirnberger (1731 - 1780);
 gabrijel tom\a8i ;
 zvonko trontelj;
 aleksej turn\a8ek;

 v .

 alojzij vadnal (1910 - 1987);
 anton vakselj (1899 - 1987);
 ale\a8 vavpeti ;
 jurij vega (1754 - 1802);
 aleksander vesel;
 ivan vidav (1918 -);
 jo\b8e vrabec (1940 -);
 joso vukman;

 z .

 egon zakraj\a8ek (1941 - 2002);
 borut zalar;
 ale\a8 zalo\b8nik;
 boris zgrabli ;
 milan ziegler;
 rihard zupan i  (1878 - 1949);

 \b4 .
 matjaz \b4eljko;
 janez \b4erovnik;
 petra \b4igert;
 arjana \b4itnik;

see also: mathematician, geometer, list of slovenians.






</doc>
<doc id="3982532" title="foxface rabbitfish" nonfiltered="494" processed="485" dbindex="498">


the foxface rabbitfish (siganus vulpinus), also known as the foxface or foxface lo (as it is sometimes classified in the genus lo) is a popular saltwater aquarium fish. it is of the family siganidae.

appearance.
the foxface is a bright yellow, medium-sized fish, usually attaining an average size of 9 inches in length. the head and front portion of its body is striped dark brown (or black) and white. they retain this bright coloring throughout the day, and during the night (or when stressed), like many other fishes, they have the ability to change into a dark brown color. this is most likely used as a camouflage against predators, and upon waking, their bright colors almost immediately return.

they have a long snout-like mouth that is used for feeding on algae and other vegetation, with the snout being particularly handy for reaching into crevices. caution should be used with this fish. all of the dorsal, pelvic and anal fins have venomous spines. a wound from any of them can be, at the least, very painful.

foods.
the foxface is omnivorous but enjoys algae and other marine plant life. however, in an aquarium it is usually not considered a "reef-safe" fish. from time to time, if hungry, it may nip at corals (usually zooanthids and button polyps). though not an obligate herbivore, the foxface does require algae in its diet. in captivity it can usually be coaxed into eating a combination of mysis shrimp, sheets of dried seaweed and marine flake food containing algae.

distribution and habitats.
the foxface lives throughout the western pacific, often inhabiting coral reefs.

references.
 ;
 ;



</doc>
<doc id="8163836" title="avraam papadopoulos" nonfiltered="495" processed="486" dbindex="499">

avraam papadopoulos (born in december 3, 1984 in sydney, australia) is a football player, currently playing for aris thessaloniki

avraam papadopoulos is considered to be one of the most talented young players in greece. he is a member of aris thessaloniki since 2001, when he signed his first contract for the aris youth team.









</doc>
<doc id="1011307" title="v. s. achuthanandan" nonfiltered="496" processed="487" dbindex="500">


velikkakathu sankaran achuthanandan, (malayalam:                                    ) (20 october, 1923   ) is the twentieth chief minister of kerala state, india. he has been a politburo member of communist party of india (marxist) (cpi(m)) since 1985 and is popularly known as "comrade vs".

early life.
born on 20 october 1923 to sankaran and accamma in alappuzha district of kerala state, achuthanandan had to face poverty from a very early age. he belongs to the prominent ezhava caste of kerala. he lost his mother when he was just four years old and father at 11 years. this forced him to give up his studies after finishing 7th standard in school . he started working by helping his elder brother in a tiny village cloth shop. later he took up the job of meshing coir to make ropes at a coir factory. visit kerala cm's official website

political life.
he entered into the world of politics through trade union activities and joined state congress in 1938. like many young men of his age, he became disillusioned with the policies of the congress and became a member of the communist party of india (cpi) in 1940. he was imprisoned for five years and six months during freedom struggle period and has gone under-ground for four and half years in his decades old political career. he is the only one living keralite among the 32 members who left the cpi national council in 1964 to form the cpi(m). he is the senior most leader of cpi(m) in kerala. he was a state secretariate member of the cpi in 1957. amongst all political leaders the state has seen so far and the contemporaries, vs is the most popular one.

achuthanandan has the public image of a honest politician and has generally stayed clear of controversy. however, the anti-reclamation stir launched by the kerala state karshaka thozhilali union (ksktu) at mancombu in 1996-97, inaugurated by achuthanandan, earned the sobriquet`vettinirathal samaram' following the violent methods and crop destruction resorted to by the ksktu cadre. the stir generated lot of public criticism and mr. achuthanandan expressed his disapproval of any further destruction of crops.the recent decision of his government to ban coca-cola and pepsi in kerala has proved controversial, even though the measure had tremendous public support. the indian soft drinks manufacturers  association claimed that its products manufactured in india met every safety standard set by food, health and regulatory bodies in india and abroad.the indian government later stated that the findings of an ngo that the soft drink samples taken from the two companies contained higher than permissible limits of pesticide, were erroneous and inconclusive. this finding and his own understanding of the pollution that such industries cause on the local livelihood and environment had led to the ban. he has also stated in public that such polluting industries will not be allowed to function in the state. achuthanandan government's decision to log microsoft out of kerala schoolsproved controversial with critics stating that its not proper to introduce politics in technology.

punnapra-vayalar uprising.
he was very active in the famous punnapra-vayalar uprising and led the farmers to root out feudalism.

leadership.
achuthanandan had served many positions in his long political career. he was the kerala state secretary of the cpi(m) between 1980 and 1992 and he became the member of the politburo since 1985. he was also active in parliamentary politics as he became the member of kerala legislative assembly in 1967, 1970, 1991, 2001 and 2006. he was the leader of opposition in the kerala legislative assembly from 1992 to 1996 and from 2001 to 2006. 

he gained a huge popular support during his stint as the opposition leader in 2001-2006 legislative assembly. he took active personal interests in making visits to even the remotest of places, discussing with rape victims, or to sites of industrial pollution where ever he believed that the ruling government was not doing things in a right fashion, or done in an outright dishonest way. 

 assembly elections, 2006 .
during the assembly elections held in kerala in april-may 2006, vs achuthanandan defeated satheesan pacheeni of the united democratic front by a large margin of 20,017 votes in malampuzha constituency in palghat district. it has been said that with this win vs successfully countered the accusation that when the party wins vs loses, and if vs wins the party loses. 

it should be noted that when the prospective candidate list for cpi(m) was published (for the elections of 2006), the name of achuthanandan was conspiciously absent. this created an uproar across the state, and processions and protests were held in support of achuthanandan. the polit bureau finally succumbed to the pressure, and decided to field vs from malampuzha.

chief minister.
after the assembly elections in 2006, cpi(m)-led left democratic front (ldf) gained an absolute majority in the house. the state committee and polit bureau of cpi(m) unanimously decided to make achuthanandan the chief minister of kerala. he took oath of office on 18 may, 2006 as the twentieth chief minister of kerala.

external links.
 http://www.keralacm.gov.in ;
 http://www.tehelka.com/story_main20.asp?filename=ne100706upclose.asp ;

 comrade vs on the net;
 official biography;
 indian express profile;
 anti-reclamation stir comes full circle;
 kerala takes the fizz out of coke & pepsi;
 indian state to dump windows for linux;
 kerala logs microsoft out of schools;





 










</doc>
<doc id="1843435" title="norway at the 2000 summer olympics" nonfiltered="497" processed="488" dbindex="501">


norway was represented at the 2000 summer olympics in sydney by the norwegian olympic committee and confederation of sports.

medals.
norway finished in 19th position in the final medal rankings, with four gold medals and ten medals overall.

gold.
 trine hattestad   athletics, women's javelin throw ;

 knut holmann   canoeing, men's k1 500 m kayak singles ;

 knut holmann   canoeing, men's k1 1000 m kayak singles;

 anita rapp, hege riise, brit sandaune, dagny mellgren, bente nordby, marianne pettersen, g\f8ril kringen, bente kvitland, unni lehn, ingeborg hovland, silje j\f8rgensen, monica knudsen, ragnhild gulbrandsen, solveig gulbrandsen, margunn haugenes, kristin bekkevold, christine boe jensen, and gro espeseth   football (soccer), women's team competition;

silver.
 kjersti tysse pl\e4tzer   athletics, women's 20 km walk ;

 trude gundersen   taekwondo, women's 67 kg;

 fredrik raaen bekken and olaf tufte   rowing, men's double sculls;

bronze.
 harald stenvaag   shooting, men's small-bore rifle, three positions ;

 paul davis, herman horn johannessen, and espen stokkeland   sailing, men's soling team competition;

 monica sandve, else-marthe s\f8rlie, heidi tjugum, jeanette nilsen, marianne rokne, birgitte s\e6ttem, mia hundvin, tonje larsen, cecilie leganger, kjersti grini, trine haltvik, elisabeth hilmo, kristine duvholt, ann cathrin eriksen, and susann goks\f8r   handball, women's team competition;

results by event.
archery.

in the sixth appearance by the nation in the archery competition at the olympics, norway represented by three men and one woman.  their combined record was 1-4.  the men's team also lost their first match.

 

men's team:
 nesteng, humlekj\e6r, and grov - round of 16, 10th place;



athletics.
men's competition.
men's 200 m
 geir moen;
 round 1 - 20.76;
 round 2 - 20.65 (did not advance);

 john ertzgaard;
 round 1 - 21 (did not advance) ;

men's 800 m
 vebj\f8rn rodal;
 round 1 - 01:46.76;
 semifinal - 01:48.73 (did not advance);

men's 5000 m
 marius bakken;
 round 1 - 13:44.80 (did not advance) ;

men's 3000 m steeplechase
 jim sven\f8y;
 round 1 - 08:23.61;
 final - 08:27.20 (9th place) ;

men's javelin throw
 p\e5l-arne fagernes;
 qualifying - 86.74;
 final - 83.04 (9th place);

men's triple jump
 ketil hanstveit;
 qualifying - 16.75 (did not advance);

men's decathlon
 trond h\f8iby;
 100m - 11.56;
 long jump - 6.22;
 shot put - 14.03;
 high jump - dns;

women's competition.
women's 10000 m
 gunhild halle-haugen;
 round 1 - dnf (did not advance);

women's javelin throw
 trine hattestad;
 qualifying - 65.44;
 final - 68.91 (gold medal) - olympic record;

women's high jump
 hanne haugland;
 qualifying - 1.89 (did not advance);

women's 20km walk
 kjersti tysse pl\e4tzer;
 final - 1:29:33 (silver medal);

canoe / kayak.
flatwater.
men's competition.
men's kayak singles 500m
 knut holmann;
 qualifying heat - 01:40.990;
 semifinal - 01:39.964;
 final - 01:57.847 (gold medal);

men's kayak singles 1000m
 knut holmann;
 qualifying heat - 03:36.565;
 semifinal - 03:36.425;
 final - 03:33.269 (gold medal);

men's kayak doubles 500m
 eirik ver\e5s larsen, nils olav fjeldheim;
 qualifying heat - 01:35.619;
 semifinal - 01:34.712 (did not advance);

men's kayak doubles 1,000m
 eirik ver\e5s larsen, nils olav fjeldheim;
 qualifying heat - 03:15.483;
 semifinal - 03:17.288;
 final - 03:20.515 (9th place) ;

men's canoe singles 500m
 christian frederiksen;
 qualifying heat - 01:54.366;
 semifinal - 01:53.661 (did not advance);

men's canoe singles 1000m
 christian frederiksen;
 qualifying heat - 03:55.378;
 semifinal - bye;
 final - 03:58.159 (5th place) ;

cycling.
cross country mountain bike.
men's cross country mountain bike
 tom larsen;
 final - lapped (35th place) ;

 rune h\f8ydahl;
 final - dnf;

women's mountain bike
 ragnhild kost\f8l;
 final - 2:01:51.24 (22nd place);

road cycling.
men's competition.
men's individual time trial
 thor hushovd;
 final - 0:59:00 (7th place) ;

men's road race
 bjoemar vestoel;
 final - 5:36:14 (78th place) ;

 kurt asle arvesen;
 final - dnf;

 svein gaute h\f8lest\f8l;
 final - dnf;

 thor hushovd;
 final - dnf;
women's competition.
women's individual time trial
 solrun flataas;
 final - 0:45:01 (20th place) ;

women's road race
 monica valen;
 final - 3:08:02 (29th place) ;

 ingunn bollerud;
 final - 3:10:33 (35th place) ;

 solrun flataas;
 final - 3:11:04 (38th place);

sailing.
women's single handed dinghy (europe)
 siren sundby ;
 race 1 - 7 ;
 race 2 - 10 ;
 race 3 - 12 ;
 race 4 - (23);
 race 5 - 16 ;
 race 6 - 21 ;
 race 7 - (28) dnf;
 race 8 - 10 ;
 race 9 - 23 ;
 race 10 - 22 ;
 race 11 - 10 ;
 final - 131 (19th place);

women's double handed dinghy (470)
 carolina toll and jeanette lunde;
 race 1 - (17);
 race 2 - 9 ;
 race 3 - 7 ;
 race 4 - (17);
 race 5 - 17 ;
 race 6 - 11 ;
 race 7 - 7 ;
 race 8 - 17 ;
 race 9 - 8 ;
 race 10 - 13 ;
 race 11 - 16 ;
 final - 105 (16th place);

open laser
 peer moberg;
 race 1 - 12 ;
 race 2 - 7 ;
 race 3 - 11 ;
 race 4 - (32);
 race 5 - 7 ;
 race 6 - 6 ;
 race 7 - (24);
 race 8 - 4 ;
 race 9 - 10 ;
 race 10 - 22 ;
 race 11 - 15 ;
 final - 94 (10th place);

open three handed keelboat (soling)
 paul davis, herman horn johannessen and espen stokkeland;
 did not advance to round robin;

open high performance two handed dinghy (49er)
 christoffer sundby and vegard arnhoff;
 race 1 - 16 ;
 race 2 - (17);
 race 3 - (18) ocs ;
 race 4 - 2 ;
 race 5 - 2 ;
 race 6 - 10 ;
 race 7 - 14 ;
 race 8 - 7 ;
 race 9 - 10 ;
 race 10 - 16 ;
 race 11 - 10 ;
 race 12 - 13 ;
 race 13 - 6 ;
 race 14 - 17 ;
 race 15 - 5 ;
 race 16 - 14 ;
 final - 142 (13th place);

references.
wallechinsky, david (2004). the complete book of the summer olympics (athens 2004 edition). toronto, canada. isbn 1-894963-32-6. ;
international olympic committee (2001). the results. retrieved 11/12/05.
sydney organising committee for the olympic games (2001). official report of the xxvii olympiad volume 1: preparing for the games. retrieved 11/20/05.
sydney organising committee for the olympic games (2001). official report of the xxvii olympiad volume 2: celebrating the games. retrieved 11/20/05.
sydney organising committee for the olympic games (2001). the results. retrieved 11/20/05.
international olympic committee web site;







</doc>
<doc id="3567780" title="william malone" nonfiltered="498" processed="489" dbindex="502">
see also william malone (movie director) ();
----

lieutenant colonel william george malone (born 24 january 1859 in london, england, died 8 august 1915 at chunuk bair in turkey) served as a soldier in the new zealand expeditionary force. at the outbreak of world war i, malone gained command of the wellington battalion of the new zealand expeditionary force and deployed as part of the anzac forces. he saw extensive action during the battle of gallipoli and was killed in action on 8 august 1915. popular belief held that a turkish shell killed malone, but research suggests that friendly fire felled him whilst he surveyed the battlefield to determine the best position for another regiment. (a british battleship shelled chunuk bair because the british believed that the turks would have killed any remaining anzacs there by that time.)

prior to world war i, malone had taken an active part in the community of stratford in taranaki, new zealand. he helped found the stratford county council and served as its first clerk and treasurer from 1891 to 1900. he also worked as a solicitor and a partner in a law firm dealing mostly with land transactions. in recognition of his service to their community and his country, in 1923 the stratford community placed a memorial in the form of white marble gates at the entrance to king edward park: new zealand's largest war memorial commemorating an individual soldier. the new zealand government erected a memorial in his honour in wellington in 2005. 

references.
pugsley, chris. 'malone, william george 1859 - 1915'. dictionary of new zealand biography, url: http://www.dnzb.govt.nz/;
malone, e. p. 'the diaries and letters of lt col w. g. malone, august 1914--august 1915'. turnbull library record 22, no 1 (may 1989): 41--49;
anzac individual record for lt. col. william g. malone;
 ian church: the stratford inheritance. heritage press, stratford district council 1990. isbn 0-908708-17-3;
 david e. walter: stratford: shakespearean town under the mountain . stratford district council 2005. isbn 1-877399-05-1;







</doc>
<doc id="1795213" title="dirty sweet ep" nonfiltered="499" processed="490" dbindex="503">


dirty sweet is the debut ep released by melbourne rock band jet on may 6, 2003. the songs featured on this ep are also on the band's debut album, get born.

track listing.
"take it or leave it";
"cold hard bitch";
"move on";
"rollover d.j.";







</doc>
<doc id="115050" title="lebanon junction, kentucky" nonfiltered="500" processed="491" dbindex="504">
lebanon junction is a city in bullitt county, kentucky, united states. the population was 1,801 at the 2000 census.

geography.

lebanon junction is located at  (37.836197, -85.727127).

according to the united states census bureau, the city has a total area of 13.8 km\b2 (5.3 mi\b2), all land.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 1,801 people, 716 households, and 499 families residing in the city. the population density was 130.5/km\b2 (337.9/mi\b2). there were 752 housing units at an average density of 54.5/km\b2 (141.1/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the city was 98.22% white, 0.56% african american, 0.28% native american, 0.06% asian, and 0.89% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 0.61% of the population.

there were 716 households out of which 32.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.8% were married couples living together, 11.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 30.3% were non-families. 27.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 2.52 and the average family size was 3.05.

in the city the population was spread out with 26.0% under the age of 18, 8.9% from 18 to 24, 29.0% from 25 to 44, 21.5% from 45 to 64, and 14.5% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 37 years. for every 100 females there were 95.3 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.7 males.

the median income for a household in the city was $28,571, and the median income for a family was $38,021. males had a median income of $30,000 versus $21,935 for females. the per capita income for the city was $15,890. about 11.8% of families and 14.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 15.4% of those under age 18 and 17.6% of those age 65 or over.

external links.









</doc>
<doc id="2438661" title="suttons seeds" nonfiltered="501" processed="492" dbindex="505">
suttons seeds is a long established supplier of seeds, bulbs, and other horticultural products. today based in english town of paignton, the company supplies its products worldwide, and is part of the vilmorin clause & cie group of companies.

 history .
suttons seeds were founded in the berkshire town of reading in 1806 by john sutton (1777-1863). originally the company traded as corn merchants and were known as the 'house of sutton'. in 1832 john sutton was joined in the business by his sons, martin hope (1815-1901) and alfred. in 1837 the business moved to reading's market place, where the sons persuaded their father to expand into the flower and vegetable seed trade. from this time on the firm progressed and expanded rapidly, eaning a reputation for supplying pure, unadulterated seed. 

the market place shop occupied a prominent position overlooking the saturday vegetable and general market. martin hope acquired nursery grounds in queens road along with a greenhouse. by mid-1838 he began selling greenhouse plants, many of the bulbs coming from local nurseries, but some from holland. in 1836 martin hope, aged 21 years, became a partner and the 'house of sutton' became sutton & son.

suttons established their own laboratory to test seeds for germination and purity in 1840. in the same year, the company became one of the first to take advantage of the opening of the great western railway through reading. the railway was responsible both for bringing in large consignments of seeds and bulbs, and for carrying outgoing mail orders to all parts of the country. 

suttons received royal patronage in 1858, when queen victoria requested martin hope sutton to supply seeds to the royal household. suttons seeds have held a royal warrant ever since, and are currently suppliers to queen elizabeth.
  	
in 1873, extensive new offices and warehouses replaced the original premises, albeit still fronting market place. these occupied a considerable part of central reading, stretching back apremises included offices, different store rooms for various seeds and bulbs, an exhibition department, stables and even a works fire station.

in 1911, the company donated money towards the setting up of a new hall at the then university college reading (later to become the university of reading), providing half the funds for wessex hall (brown, 2006).

in 1962, suttons moved again to new show grounds and premises on the then main a4 road just to the east of reading. in 1965, suttons were the first company to offer foil packets to the amateur gardener in the uk. the company relocated from reading to torquay in the county of devon 1976 and in 1998 moved again to brand new premises in the nearby town of paignton.

 external links .
suttons seeds web site;

 references .
suttons seeds (2005). suttons seeds - history. retrieved august 12, 2005.
brown, c. (2006). four score & more. reading: the university of reading press;



</doc>
<doc id="24075" title="peripheral component interconnect" nonfiltered="502" processed="493" dbindex="506">




the peripheral component interconnect, or pci standard (in practice almost always shortened to pci) specifies a computer bus for attaching peripheral devices to a computer motherboard. these devices can take any one of the following forms:
an integrated circuit fitted onto the motherboard itself, called a planar device in the pci specification.
an expansion card that fits in sockets.

the pci bus is common in modern pcs, where it has displaced isa and vesa local bus as the standard expansion bus, but it also appears in many other computer types. the bus will eventually be succeeded by pci express, which is standard in most new computers, and other technologies.

the pci specification covers the physical size of the bus (including wire spacing), electrical characteristics, bus timing, and protocols. the specification can be purchased from the pci special interest group (pcisig).

history.
work on pci began at intel's architecture lab circa 1990. pci 1.0, which was merely a component-level specification, was released on june 22, 1992. pci 2.0, which was the first to establish standards for the connector and motherboard slot, was released on april 30, 1993. pci 2.1 was released on june 1, 1995.

pci was immediately put to use in servers, replacing mca and eisa as the server expansion bus of choice. in mainstream pcs, pci was slower to replace vesa local bus (vlb), and did not gain significant market penetration until late 1994 in second-generation pentium pcs. by 1996 vlb was all but extinct, and manufacturers had adopted pci even for 486 computers. eisa continued to be used alongside pci through 2000. apple computer adopted pci for professional power macintosh computers (replacing nubus) in mid-1995, and the consumer performa product line (replacing lc pds) in mid-1996.

later revisions of pci added new features and performance improvements, including a 66 mhz 3.3 v standard and 133 mhz pci-x, and the adaptation of pci signaling to other form factors. both pci-x 1.0b and pci-x 2.0 are backward compatible with pci standards.  with the introduction of the serial pci express standard in 2004, motherboard manufacturers have included progressively fewer pci expansion slots in favor of the new standard. although it is still common to see both interfaces implemented side-by-side, traditional pci is likely to slowly die out in coming years.

the system firmware examines each device's pci configuration space and allocates resources. each device can request up to six areas of memory space or i/o port space.

they can also have an optional rom that can contain executable x86 or pa-risc code, open firmware or an efi driver.

in a typical system, the operating system queries all pci buses at startup time to find out what devices are present and what system resources (memory, interrupt lines, etc.) each needs. it then allocates the resources and tells each device what its allocation is.

the pci configuration space also contains a small amount of device type information, which helps an operating system choose device drivers for it, or at least to have a dialogue with a user about the system configuration. part of this information is a human readable text description of the device.

interrupts.
devices are required to follow a protocol so that the interrupt lines can be shared.  the pci bus includes four interrupt lines, all of which are available to each device.  however, they are not wired in parallel as are the other traces.  the positions of the interrupt lines rotate between slots, so what appears to one device as the inta# line is intb# to the next and intc# to the next.  single-function devices always use their inta# for interrupt signalling, so the device load is spread fairly evenly across the four available interrupt lines.  this alleviates a common problem with sharing interrupts.

pci bridges (between two pci buses) map the four interrupt traces on each of their sides in varying ways.  some bridges use a fixed mapping, and in others it is configurable.  in the general case, software cannot determine which interrupt line a device's inta# pin is connected to across a bridge.  the mapping of pci interrupt lines onto system interrupt lines, through the pci host bridge, is similarly implementation-dependent.  the result is that it can be impossible to determine how a pci device's interrupts will appear to software.  platform-specific bios code is meant to know this, and set a field in each device's configuration space indicating which irq it is connected to, but this process is not reliable.

pci interrupt lines are level-triggered.  this was chosen over edge-triggering in order to gain an efficiency advantage when servicing a shared interrupt line in a particular way.  however, this efficiency gain comes at the cost of robustness and flexibility.  one interrupting device can easily block all other devices on the same interrupt line.  (see "level-triggered interrupt" for explanation.)

later revisions of the pci specification add support for message-signalled interrupts.  in this system a device signals its need for service by perfoming a memory write, rather than by asserting a dedicated line.  this alleviates the problem of scarcity of interrupt lines.  even if interrupt vectors are still shared, it does not suffer the sharing problems of level-triggered interrupts.  it also resolves the routing problem, because the memory write is not unpredictably modified between device and host.  finally, because the message signalling is in-band, it resolves some synchronisation problems that can occur with posted writes and out-of-band interrupt lines.

pci express does not have physical interrupt lines at all.  it uses message-signalled interrupts exclusively.

conventional hardware specifications.



33.33 mhz clock with synchronous transfers;
peak transfer rate of 133 mb per second for 32-bit bus width (33.33 mhz   32 bits   (1 byte   8 bits) = 133 mb/s);
32-bit or 64-bit bus width;
32-bit address space (4 gigabytes);
32-bit port space (now deprecated);
256-byte configuration space;
3.3 or 5-volt signaling;
reflected-wave switching;

variants.
conventional.
pci 2.2 allows for 66 mhz signaling (requires 3.3 volt signaling) (peak transfer rate of 266 mb/s);
pci 2.3 permits use of 3.3 volt and universal keying, but does not allow 5 volt keyed add in cards.
pci 3.0 is the final official standard of the bus, completely removing 5-volt capability.
pci-x doubles the width to 64-bit, revises the protocol, and increases the maximum data rate to 133 mhz (peak transfer rate of 1014 mb/s);
pci-x 2.0 permits a 266 mhz rate (peak transfer rate of 2035 mb/s) and also 533 mhz rate, expands the configuration space to 4096 bytes, adds a 16-bit bus variant and allows for 1.5 volt signaling;
mini pci is a new form factor of pci 2.2 for use mainly inside laptops;
cardbus is a pcmcia form factor for 32-bit, 33 mhz pci;
compact pci, uses eurocard-sized modules plugged into a pci backplane.
pc/104-plus is an industrial bus that uses the pci signal lines with different connectors.



card's physical size.
a full-size pci card has a height of 107 mm (4.2 inches) and a depth of 312 mm (12.283 inches).

the height includes the edge card connector.

in addition to these dimensions the physical size and location of a card's backplate are also standardized. the backplate is the part that fastens to the card cage to stabilize the card and also contains external connectors, so it usually attaches in a window so it is accessible from outside the computer case.

a pci card can be any smaller size, but the backplate must still be full-size and properly located so that the card fits in any standard pci slot.

many computers have slots for pci cards but do not have the space for full-size pci cards. in some computers, some slots accommodate full-size pci cards, while others do not because some part of the computer interferes.

"half-height" and "half-length" cards and slots are common, and presumably have dimensions half those of the full-size cards. other cards with reduced height are called "low profile" or "slim."

there is at least one reduced size variation on the backplate and there are very compact card cages that require that variation. it is not common.

half-length extension card.
width 0.6 inches (15.24 mm), depth 6.9 inches (175.26 mm), height 4.2 inches (106.68 mm);

see also.
amba specification;
industry standard architecture (isa);
extended industry standard architecture (eisa);
micro channel architecture (mca);
mini pci;
nubus;
vesa local bus (vlb);
accelerated graphics port (agp);
pci express (pcie);
list of device bandwidths (a useful listing of device bandwidths that include pci);
pci-x;
pci class (a useful listing of classes of pci devices);

external links.
pci sig;
pci interfacing from windows os.
http://pciids.sourceforge.net pci ids.
pci and pci32 utilities, craig hart's freeware pci software suites and id database;
linux with minipci cards;
pci bus pin-out and signals;
brief introduction to pci - part i;
brief introduction to pci - part ii;



































</doc>
<doc id="10965" title="fay wray" nonfiltered="503" processed="494" dbindex="507">

vina fay wray (september 15, 1907   august 8, 2004) was a canadian american actress. 

 early life .
wray was born on a ranch near cardston, alberta, canada. her family moved to the united states when she was three. although wray's autobiography discusses her mormon parentage and makes it clear that she was culturally mormon, she was apparently never baptized as a member of the church of jesus christ of latter-day saints. wray's family lived in predominantly mormon communities in alberta, arizona and salt lake city, utah before settling in los angeles, california, where she got her first film work in hal roach comedy shorts and in low-budget westerns in the early 1920s.

 career .
wray gained media attention when she was selected as one of the wampas baby stars in 1926, which landed her a contract at paramount pictures.

in 1928, director erich von stroheim cast wray as the main female lead in his troubled production of the wedding march, which sent hollywood in a buzz for its high budget and production values. it was a financial failure, but it gave wray her first lead role.

she is best remembered for her role as ann darrow, the blonde seductress of a gigantic, prehistoric gorilla in the classic horror/adventure film king kong (1933). she wore a blonde wig over her naturally dark hair for the role. there have been claims the screams emanated from actress julie haydon, and dubbed to wray, but that has been disputed.

 personal life .
wray was married three times. 
john monk saunders;
robert riskin;
dr. sanford rothenberg ;

she had three children (not four as is sometimes misreported): 
susan saunders ;
victoria riskin ;
robert riskin jr.

her autobiography, on the other hand (isbn 0-312-02265-4), was published in 1988. 

for her contribution to the motion picture industry, fay wray has a star on the hollywood walk of fame at 6349 hollywood blvd. she received a posthumous star on canada's walk of fame in toronto on june 5, 2005.

a small park near lee's creek on main street in cardston, alberta, is named fay wray park in her honor. the small sign at the edge of the park on main street has a silhouette of king kong on it.

wray died at her apartment in manhattan, new york at the age of 96 of natural causes on august 8, 2004, and was interred at the hollywood forever cemetery in hollywood, california.

in may 2006, wray became one of the first four entertainers to ever be honored by canada post by being featured on a postage stamp.

trivia.
 peter jackson had approached her about doing a cameo in his 2005 remake of king kong, but she died before she could do so. originally, she was to walk up to kong's body in the film's final scene, and deliver the famous line "it was beauty killed the beast." after her death, the line reverted to carl denham (jack black) who says it in the original film.
 she is referred to in peter jackson's king kong: carl denham needs to find an actress quickly, and suggests 'fay' as a possibility. however, he is told that she is doing a picture with rko. the original film was produced by  rko. to which denham replies "cooper, huh? i might have known." referring to the director merian c. cooper.
 she is the granddaughter of mormon pioneer daniel webster jones.
 referred to in the opening and closing sequences of the rocky horror picture show, and is portrayed as the role model of tim curry's character frank n furter (whatever happened to fay wray?);
 after her death, the empire state building went into complete darkness for 15 minutes in her memory.

filmography.
gasoline love (1923) (short subject);
thundering landlords (1925) (short subject);
no father to guide him (1925) (short subject);
the coast patrol (1925);
sure-mike (1925) (short subject);
what price goofy (1925) (short subject);
isn't life terrible? (1925) (short subject);
chasing the chaser (1925) (short subject);
madame sans jane (1925) (short subject);
unfriendly enemies (1925) (short subject);
your own back yard (1925) (short subject);
moonlight and noses (1925) (short subject);
should sailors marry? (1925) (short subject);
wampas baby stars of 1926 (1926) (short subject);
one wild time (1926) (short subject);
don key (a son of a burro) (1926) (short subject);
the man in the saddle (1926);
don't shoot (1926) (short subject);
the wild horse stampede (1926) ;
the saddle tramp (1926) (short subject);
the show cowpuncher (1926) (short subject);
lazy lightning (1926);
loco luck (1927);
a one man game (1927);
spurs and saddles (1927);
a trip through the paramount studio (1927) (short subject);
the honeymoon (1928) (unreleased);
the legion of the condemned (1928);
street of sin (1928);
the first kiss (1928);
the wedding march (1928);
thunderbolt (1929);
the four feathers (1929);
pointed heels (1929);
behind the make-up (1930);
paramount on parade (1930);
the texan (1930);
the border legion (1930);
the sea god (1930);
captain thunder (1930);
the conquering horde (1931);
three rogues (1931);
the slippery pearls (1931) (short subject);
dirigible (1931);
the finger points (1931);
the lawyer's secret (1931);
the unholy garden (1931);
hollywood on parade (1932) (short subject);
stowaway (1932);
doctor x (1932);
the most dangerous game (1932);
the vampire bat (1932);
mystery of the wax museum (1933);
king kong (1933);
below the sea (1933);
ann carver's profession (1933);
the woman i stole (1933);
shanghai madness (1933);
the big brain (1933);
one sunday afternoon (1933);
the bowery (1933);
master of men (1933);
the clairvoyant (1934);
madame spy (1934);
the countess of monte cristo (1934);
once to every woman (1934);
viva villa! (1934);
the affairs of cellini (1934);
black moon (1934);
the richest girl in the world (1934);
cheating cheaters (1934);
woman in the dark (1934);
come out of the pantry (1935);
mills of the gods (1935);
bulldog jack (1935);
white lies (1935);
when knight were bold (1936);
roaming lady (1936);
they met in a taxi (1936);
it happened in hollywood (1937);
murder in greenwich village (1937);
the jury's secret (1938);
smashing the spy ring (1939);
navy secrets (1939);
wildcat bus (1940);
melody for three (1941);
adam had four sons (1941);
not a ladies' man (1942);
treasure of the golden condor (1953);
small town girl (1953);
hell on frisco bay (1955);
the cobweb (1955);
queen bee (1955);
rock, pretty baby (1956);
crime of passion (1957);
tammy and the bachelor (1957);
summer love (1958);
dragstrip riot (1958);
gideons trumpet(1980);
off the menu: the last days of chasen's (1997) (documentary);
 (2003) (documentary);

see also. 
other canadian pioneers in early hollywood;

external links.
;
 cbc.ca news: fay wray dies at 96;
 a more complete biography;

























</doc>
<doc id="7242484" title="holt fleet" nonfiltered="504" processed="495" dbindex="508">
holt fleet is a riverside village in the english county of worcestershire.

it lies on the east bank of the river severn and gives its name to thomas telford's bridge that carries the a4133 road over the severn west of the town of droitwich.

 external links .
illustrations;
;




</doc>
<doc id="518789" title="uss sampson (ddg-10)" nonfiltered="505" processed="496" dbindex="509">

uss sampson (ddg-10), named for admiral william t. sampson usn (1840 1902), was a charles f. adams-class guided missile destroyer in the united states navy.

sampson was laid down by the bath iron works at bath in maine on 2 march 1959, launched on 21 may 1960 by mrs. john s. crenshaw and commissioned on 24 june 1961, commander forrester w. isen in command.

following shakedown off guantanamo bay in september, sampson tested and evaluated the tartar missile system off puerto rico. homeported at norfolk, she conducted further tests and trials in early 1962 before joining destroyer squadron 18 (desron 18) and destroyer division 182 (desdiv 182) in july. composed completely of missile ships, desron 18 was then the most modern squadron in the navy. further radar and missile tests followed in 1963; and, in july, sampson operated in the midshipman training squadron. finally, in january 1964, sampson fired two tartar missiles under simulated combat conditions. during 1964, she also underwent her first regular overhaul, and received missile replenishment at sea from helicopters.

in january 1965, sampson sailed for her first mediterranean deployment, but an electrical fire on the night of 14 january caused extensive damage to her fire control capability and forced her to abbreviate her deployment and enter the norfolk naval shipyard for repairs on 15 march.

the destroyer returned to fleet duties on 24 june. while conducting gunnery exercises, on 17 july, sampson spotted the 50-foot sailing sloop, cecelia anna, flying distress signals and rescued her 6 crewmen and mascot puppy moments before the sloop sank. in 1966, sampson conducted gunnery exercises and escort duties near guantanamo bay, cuba; then, in march, she deployed to the mediterranean for extensive operations with the 6th fleet. she returned to norfolk, virginia in august. on 28 november, following three weeks of exercises in the caribbean and additional tests, sampson got underway to participate in exercise  lantflex 66  in which she provided asw and aaw services for the asw carrier, wasp (cvs-18), and conducted exercises in the puerto rico operating area before returning to norfolk in december.

sampson deployed to the mediterranean in mid-1967. while there, a sampson radarman rescued a german seaman from the harbor at ferrol, spain. leaving the 6th fleet at the end of august 1967, sampson steamed back to the united states, and soon shifted to her new home port of charleston, south carolina.

sampson operated out of charleston in the atlantic and caribbean during 1968 until again deploying to the mediterranean in october. she returned to charleston in january 1969 and resumed operations in the atlantic and the caribbean until redeploying to the mediterranean in october of that year. after six months with the 6th fleet, she returned to charleston on 28 march 1970.

sampson operated out of charleston in the western atlantic until 23 september, when, after only two days' notice, she got underway for special operations in the mediterranean. she spent the month of october cruising first with john f. kennedy (cva-67), then with saratoga (cv-60), during the latest levantine crisis. on 1 november, she stood out of barcelona, spain, to return to the united states. sampson entered the mouth of the cooper river on the 12th, moored at charleston, and began a leave and upkeep period.

she ended 1970 and began 1971 in charleston. during the first three months of the new year, she operated in the vicinity of the british west indies; then prepared for overseas movement. on 9 april, following exercises and type training, sampson steamed out of charleston, passed fort sumter, and headed for the mediterranean. she cruised with the 6th fleet for six months, participating in exercises with both american and nato forces. by 16 october, the guided missile destroyer was back in port at charleston. she spent the rest of 1971 preparing for regular overhaul.

for four months, from 4 january until 4 may 1972, sampson underwent the first compressed regular overhaul ever attempted on a ddg. from mid-may until 9 july, she was underway for post-overhaul trials, exercises, and refresher training. she was in charleston during the period 9 july to 18 august, at which time sampson stood out for her new home port, athens, greece. she stopped at rota, spain, ten days later and entered phaleron bay on 3 october. the guided missile destroyer remained in the mediterranean, based at athens, throughout 1973 and into 1974. in april 1974, she was in port at athens. 

in 1976, commander albert l. bartels assumed command.

while under command of cdr james f. chandler, sampson underwent a major overhaul in portsmouth shipyard during 1980-81 - new sonar, radar, slq-32 ew gear, and harpoons in the launcher aft. refresher training at gitmo in 1982. this included a missile shoot which saw a standard launch to port, immediately snap vertical, do a few curly loops, and then smack into the water a few hundred yards off the starboard side. exciting. november 1982: sampson deployed to med & persian gulf. after exiting red sea on the way to the persian gulf, sampson chased & observed the soviet carrier minsk & cruiser tashkent, then cruised the persian gulf. spent some time alongside in bahrain. she made a liberty call in karachi, pakistan, where petty officers serna, bowden, and brown were fleeced by pakistani camel drivers, but otherwise had a grand time ashore. we then moved into the med, and spend (roughly) forty days parked off of beirut in order to provide support for the marines there. during this time sampson went into beirut harbor to assist fighting a fire onboard civilian freighter aziz - and then de-water that ship, which was foundering due to the beirut fire department's overzealous overwatering. sampson was on station off beirut when the us embassy was bombed. later made liberty calls in naples, gaeta, and monaco before returning to mayport, fl in may 1983.



sampson was decommissioned on 14 june 1991, stricken from the naval vessel register on 20 november 1992 and sold for scrap on 25 july 1995.

 see also .
see uss sampson for other ships of this name.








</doc>
<doc id="5076833" title="squeeze out" nonfiltered="506" processed="497" dbindex="510">
 

squeeze out is the expulsion of a small group of shareholders from a joint stock company by means of cash compensation (cf. ).

in germany, a pool of shareholders owning at least 95% of a company's shares has the right to "squeeze out" the remaining minority of shareholders by paying them an adequate compensation. this procedure is based on the securities acquisition and takeover act (ger. wertpapiererwerbs- und \dcbernahmegesetz, wp\dcg) defined in \a7\a7 327a - 327f of the german stock corporation act (ger. aktiengesetz, aktg), valid since january 1st 2002.

for the first time in german history, this law provided a mandatory legal framework for takeovers, replacing the former voluntary takeover code (ger. \dcbernahmekodex). although it has been asserted that the law does not to break with the german constitution it has courted the resentment of many small investors who consider it to be the legalization of expropriation.

 decision and execution .
the decision to enforce a squeeze out must be made by holding a vote at the general meeting; as the major party already commands the vast majority of all votes this usually is a mere formality. the compensation value is determined by the company's economical situation at the date of the general meeting, the minimum componsation being the share's average stock exchange price during the past three months..

 objection .
expelled shareholders can appeal against the squeeze out according to \a7 243 aktg . also according to this section some reasons, such as inadequate compensation, are not sufficient to inhibit the squeeze out. even while the rescission proceedings are still running the main shareholder has the right to register in the commercial registry if he meets the preconditions defined in \a7\a7 327e sec. 2, \a7 319 abs. 5, 6 aktg ; by doing so an approval process is initiated and all shares held by minor shareholders devolve to him.

 sources .







</doc>
<doc id="3151903" title="coogan's bluff (film)" nonfiltered="507" processed="498" dbindex="511">


coogan's bluff is the title of a 1968 universal film starring clint eastwood, lee j. cobb, and susan clark and directed by don siegel.  eastwood plays the part of a young veteran deputy sheriff from a rural county in arizona who travels to new york city to extradite an apprehended fugitive named ringerman, played by don stroud, who is wanted for murder.  the movie's most distinctive and elaborate scene takes place in a large, psychedelic-themed nightclub called the pigeon-toed orange peel.  also notable is a poolhall brawl with coogan fighting off a dozen men, and a climatic motorcycle pursuit between coogan and ringerman through the cloister's park.  herman miller was responsible for the story and co-wrote the screenplay with dean riesner and howard rodman. miller's work on this film is credited with inspiring the nbc / universal television show mccloud.  in addition, the film's soundtrack was composed by lalo schifrin, who also wrote the theme song of the popular 1960s television show . 

the character of coogan, a quiet but tough lawman who clashes with his superiors and short-cuts police procedure to get results, would be successfully revisited by eastwood and siegel in "dirty harry" and its sequels.  this was also the first of five films over the next ten years involving the actor/director partnership of eastwood and siegel.

the name of the film itself is a playful reference to a new york city natural landmark, coogan's bluff, a promontory in upper manhattan overlooking the site of the former long-time home of the new york giants baseball club, the polo grounds.

this was the first film that was produced by clint eastwood's malpaso production company.

 trivia .
 during the aforementioned nightclub scene, a few frames of the 1955 film tarantula are inserted; this film showcased one of clint eastwood's earliest film roles at a jet pilot.
this film was the basis of the 1970-1977 television series mccloud which starred dennis weaver as a visiting lawman from taos, new mexico assigned to duty with the new york city police department.

 external links .
clint eastwood films;
imdb;








</doc>
<doc id="907734" title="jaycie phelps" nonfiltered="508" processed="499" dbindex="512">





jaycie lynn phelps (born september 26, 1979 in indianapolis, indiana) is a united states olympic gymnast and member of the 1996 olympic gold medal u.s. women's gymnastics team, magnificent 7. she trained at cga (cincinnati gymnastics academy) under mary lee tracy with fellow magnificent 7 member amanda borden. after the olympics, jaycie went professional. along with the other gymnasts,allison nayla and michelle, she appeared in tours and gained advertising work. in 2005 she married fellow us olympic gymnast brett mcclure in a ceremony in hawaii.

she has a vault named after her, which was widely used between 1995 and 2000. however it is no longer in the code of points.

phelps was awarded sagamore of the wabash, the highest honour given to citizens of indiana. she also has had a street named after her.

external links.
;












</doc>
<doc id="3356046" title="circular highway shield" nonfiltered="509" processed="500" dbindex="513">

a circular highway shield is a route marker consisting of a number superimposed on a circle. it is officially used for state highways in delaware, iowa, kentucky, mississippi, new jersey, and was formerly used in oklahoma and vermont (though some still exist in the latter in some conditions). it is also officially used in virginia for state secondary and frontage routes, while west virginia uses both a circular design and a square design for its state routes.  many road maps of areas in the united states use a circular highway shield as a generic marker for all state highways, because other designs are difficult to print and read.  this is the marker to be used in states which do not choose a particular symbol for their markers.

since three-digit route numbers are often too wide to fit in a circle of the same size and shape as a regular shield, some states horizontally elongate the circle. other states will condense the typeface used, giving the numbers a tall, slender appearance.



 notes .


see also.
list of state route markers;




</doc>
<doc id="917622" title="abdel khaliq sarwat pasha" nonfiltered="510" processed="501" dbindex="514">
abdel khaliq sarwat pasha (1873 - 1928) (arabic:                     ) was an egyptian political figure. he served as the prime minister of egypt from 1 march 1922 until 30 november 1922, and again between 26 april 1927 and 16 march 1928.

















</doc>
<doc id="5426797" title="beige planet mars" nonfiltered="512" processed="502" dbindex="516">

beige planet mars is an original novel by lance parkin and mark clapham  featuring the fictional archaeologist bernice summerfield. the new adventures were a spin-off from the long-running british science fiction television series doctor who.

 

external links.
;
reviews.
;
;







</doc>
<doc id="2684965" title="conrad elvehjem" nonfiltered="513" processed="503" dbindex="517">
conrad a. elvehjem, (may 27, 1901 july 27, 1962), was internationally known as a biochemist in nutrition. in 1937 he identified a molecule found in fresh meat and yeast as a new vitamin, nicotinic acid, now called niacin. his discovery led directly to the cure of human pellagra, once a major health problem in the united states.

picking up on the work of joseph goldberger, he found that nicotinic acid cured black tongue in dogs, an analogous disease to pellagra.  in the previous year, elvehjem and his colleague carl j. koehn had found that a filtrate factor from a liver extract could cure diet-induced pellagra in chicks. that filtrate extract was designated as the vitamin g fraction, after the late goldberger. to confirm their findings in dogs, they induced black tongue in these animals with the goldberger diet of yellow corn, before supplementing the diet with the vitamin g fraction. elvehjem and his colleagues later were able to isolate and identify nicotinamide and nictonic acid from vitamin g as the curative factors for black tongue in dogs. he also contributed greatly to the identification of vitamin b complex and was co-author of more than 780 scientific papers on biochemistry and nutrition. 

born in mcfarland, wisconsin, elvehjem began teaching in agricultural chemistry at the university of wisconsin-madison in 1923, and became a full professor in 1936. in 1944, he was elected chairman of the biochemistry department, and served as dean of the graduate school until he became university's 13th president, in 1958. he died in madison general hospital at the age of 61 after suffering a heart attack in his office at bascom hall.

famous in madison and among biochemists, elvehjem's name appears on university awards, buildings, a town park, and a local elementary school. his name was formerly on the elvehjem art center (later the elvehjem museum of art), until the museum received a $20 million donation from simona and jerome a. chazen, (both madison almuni) and renamed itself the chazen museum of art (a controversial move). in 1952, elvehjem was awarded the albert lasker award for clinical medical research. he received the willard gibbs medal in 1943.

elvehjem s first graduate student (in 1931) was noted nutritionist fredrick john stare (who founded and chaired the department of nutrition at the harvard school of public health until 1976). 

elvehjem commented frequently on nutrition as it affects both scientist and layman. "vitamins should be obtained from natural foods if possible," he cautioned. "generally they are cheaper, more palatable, and in better balance with other factors when taken in this form." he acknowledged the value of synthetic vitamins in treating deficiency diseases, but warned that their use should be temporary. (from his obituary in the new york times, july 19, 1962.)

he met his wife constance w. elvehjem when she was an undergraduate at uw madison. she died in 1999 at the age of 93 after many years supporting the museum and the madison community.

references.





external links.
 a madison neighbourhood is named for him, complete with eponymous park.;
 the university of wisconsin has a virtual plaque dedicated to his discovery.;
 interviews with his wife and some students in the university's oral history guide. ;






</doc>
<doc id="1348593" title="sophia stewart" nonfiltered="514" processed="504" dbindex="518">


sophia stewart (aka zenia kavala) is the author of a work titled the third eye. in may 1981 she registered the manuscript with the united states copyright office (txu 117-610) on february 2, 1983 . additional work was registered on february 6, 1984 (txu-154-281) consisting of a narrative, preface, introductions, 8 brief chapters, and illustrations.

in the original copyright registration for the third eye and letters from the author, stewart uses sofia, and uses both sophia and sofia in real life. she says they both mean the same.

the matrix.

after numerous attempts to settle the matter of copyright infringement out of court, stewart sent a letter dated june 28, 1999, to the wachowski brothers informing them that she had provided the fbi with evidence and a witness name for criminal prosecution . the letter also states that the material was provided to them  to be made into a comic book which she published on november 23, 1983.

a complaint was filed by stewart against larry wachowski, andy wachowski, gale ann hurd, james cameron, hemdale films, joel silver, 20th century fox and warner brothers in the united states district court for the central district of california on april 24, 2003 .   in the complaint, damages are sought for relief from the results of copyright infringement, rico violations, and supplemental state claims.

on october 4, 2004, the court granted her leave to continue the case against warner brothers and the wachowski brothers  .

terminator.

the case also targeted twentieth century fox, the studio which currently owns the rights to the terminator franchise.  stewart has said in an interview  that the john connor character, who is born to sarah connor, grows up to be neo from the matrix.  she claimed that her manuscript the third eye encompasses both terminator and matrix trilogies, and asserts that "these two franchises are owned by the same people or movie house".

 references .
 the third eye (the mother of the matrix, volume 1) (hardcover), published 2006-12-01. (isbn 0978539648).

 external links .
sophia stewart lawsuit urban legend page on snopes.com;
sophia stewart;

books
"the mother of the matrix" by hannilie zulu
the sophia stewart lawsuit, a whole book about the case. 




</doc>
<doc id="5074648" title="alex rider: stormbreaker" nonfiltered="515" processed="505" dbindex="519">



alex rider: stormbreaker is a video game based on the 2006 film of the same name, which in turn was an adaptation of the original book. it is only available for the nintendo ds and the game boy advance. 

gameplay.

gameplay (for both ian and alex) includes combat, stealth missions and the ability to drive vehicles and use gadgets to advance in the game.  main mission briefings come from mi6 officials, alan blunt and mrs. jones. also included is an array of minigames by weapon inventor smithers. there is also an mi6 training camp mode for players to test out their skills. 

storyline.



you begin playing as ian rider, alex's uncle. he must escape herod sayle's mansion and dodge enemy motorists in order to safely return to mi6. alex soon finds out that his uncle was not a banker but a spy. the mi6 briefs you that herod sayle is going to give a stormbreaker computer to every school in britain. you must go undercover to figure out what ian rider meant by a "virus".
you are given a nintendo ds by smithers that contains different games for different causes.




reaction.

the game wasn't very well received by uk games magazine onm. with a final score of just 27%, main criticisms were that the game was ropey, had pointless minigames, and was very easy.










</doc>
<doc id="178614" title="nordreisa" nonfiltered="516" processed="506" dbindex="520">

nordreisa is a municipality in the county of troms, norway.

the municipality consists of the valley of reisadalen, with reisa river and deep pine forests, surrounded by mountains and high plateaus. most people live in storslett, where the river meets the fjord. close by, at s\f8rkjosen there is an airport. european route e6 goes through the municipality.

the name.
the municipality is named after reisafjorden (originally *reisa), which again is named after reisaelva ('reisa river' - originally *reisa). the rivername is probably derived form the verb r\edsa 'raise' (refering to flooding).

the first element nord 'northern' was added to distinguish the municipality from s\f8rreisa.

coat-of-arms.
the coat-of-arms is from modern times (1984). it shows two salmons.

history.
most inhabitants are descendants of settlers from finland who came over in the 18th century, escaping famine and war. today, only a few old people can speak finnish. some inhabitants have sami or norwegian backgrounds, and today norwegian is the main language.

few old buildings survive in nordreisa, as virtually everything was destroyed in early 1945 by retreating german troops. the two major attractions are the old trading post at havnnes, with picturesque old houses that escaped the war damages, and the waterfall of mollisfossen, 269 metres of height. the upper, or southernmost, areas of the municipality are covered by the reisa national park with unique forest and high plateau vegetation.

















</doc>
<doc id="374684" title="list of mountain passes" nonfiltered="517" processed="507" dbindex="521">
this is a list of mountain passes.

 africa .
halfaya pass;
moteng pass (lesotho);
mahlasela pass (lesotho);

asia.
 cilician gates - turkey;
 khunjerab pass - pakistan-china (highest international border crossing at 4693 m.);
 khyber pass- pakistan-afghanistan;
 kotal-e lataband;
 kotal-e salang;
 mungyeong saejae - south korea;
 usui pass - japan;

china.
 alataw pass;
 khunjerab pass;
 karakoram pass;
 kulma pass;
 pingxingguan pass;
 sasser pass;
 tanggula pass;
 torugart pass;

hong kong.
 ;

india.
asirgarh;
banihal pass;
bara-lacha-la;
changla pass;
debsa pass;
dongkhala;
fatu la;
goecha la;
haldighati;
jelep la;
khardung la;
lungalacha la;
malakand pass;
nama pass;
namika la;
nathu la;
palakkad gap;
rohtang pass;
sasser pass;
sin la;
tanglang la;
traill's pass;
zoji pass;

pakistan.
 bolan pass;
 broghol pass;
 dorah pass;
 gumal pass;
 kohat pass;
 lowari pass;

 australasia .

new zealand.
arthur's pass, south island;
burke's pass, south island;
copland pass, south island;
dansey's pass, south island;
haast pass, south island;
hope saddle, south island;
lewis pass, south island;
lindis pass, south island;
mackinnon pass, south island;
mamaku saddle, north island;
porters pass, south island;
takaka saddle, south island;
taupeupe saddle, north island;
waituhi saddle, north island;
wilmot pass, south island;

 europe .

 alps .
col de l'argentiere;
arlberg pass;
great st. bernard pass;
little st bernard pass;
san bernardino pass;
bernina pass;
brenner pass;
fern pass;
flexen pass;
fl\fcela pass;
furka pass;
gemmi pass;
st. gotthard pass;
julier pass;
klausen pass;
loibl pass;
maloja pass;
nufenen pass;
oberalp pass;
pl\f6cken pass;
semmering;
septimer pass;
col de sestrieres;
simplon pass;
spl\fcgen pass;
stelvio pass (stilfserjoch);
col de tende;
umbrail pass;
wurzen pass;

see also: principal passes of the alps, list of mountain passes in switzerland.

greece.
thermopylae;

jura mountains.
col de la croix;
col de l'aiguillon;

norway.
dovrefjell;
filefjell;
geirangerfjellet;
haukelifjell;
hemsedalsfjellet;
saltfjellet;
sognefjell;
valdresflye;

pyrenees.
roncevaux pass;
col du tourmalet;

romania.
buz u pass;
surduc pass;
tihu a pass;
timi -cerna gap;
turnu ro u pass;
vulcan pass;

sierra nevada (spain).
puerto del suspiro del moro (pass of the moor's sigh);

united kingdom.
buttertubs pass;
crimea pass;
hardknott pass;
pass of glen coe;
pen-y-pass;
shap fell;
snake pass;

 north america .

fremont pass (california), separating the san gabriel mountains from the santa susana mountains;
fremont pass (nevada), in the lake range, 8 mi. ne of pyramid lake;
fremont pass (utah);

 appalachian mountains .
cumberland gap;
delaware water gap;
lehigh gap;
newfound gap;
pinkham notch;
crawford notch;


 cascade range/thompson plateau (british columbia) .
allison pass - british columbia;
blewett pass (formerly known as swauk pass);
cascade pass - washington;
cayuse pass - washington;
chinook pass - washington;
clapperton creek summit - british columbia;
coquihalla summit - british columbia;
crater summit - oregon;
dead indian summit;
greensprings summit;
lake of the woods summit;
lolo pass;
mckenzie pass - oregon;
naches pass - washington;
old blewett pass - washington;
pennask summit - british columbia;
rainy pass - washington;
santiam pass- oregon;
snoqualmie pass - washington;
stampede pass - washington;
stevens pass - washington;
sunday summit - british columbia;
washington and rainy passes (see north cascades highway) - washington;
white pass - washington;
willamette pass - oregon;

mackenzie mountains.
macmillan pass - yukon, northwest territories;
howard's pass - yukon, northwest territories;

coast mountains.
altamont pass - central california;
chilkat pass - british columbia;
chilkoot pass - alaska, british columbia;
pacheco pass - central california;
white pass - alaska, british columbia;

 rocky mountains .
abbot pass - alberta, british columbia;
argentine pass - colorado;
beartooth pass - montana, wyoming;
berthoud pass - colorado;
black bear pass - colorado;
boreas pass - colorado;
buchanan pass - colorado;
buffalo pass - colorado;
cameron pass - colorado;
chief joseph pass - montana, idaho;
cinnamon pass - colorado;
coal bank pass - colorado;
cochetopa pass - colorado;
colter pass - montana, wyoming;
cottonwood pass - colorado;
cotton grass pass - alberta;
craig pass - wyoming;
crowsnest pass - alberta, british columbia;
dead indian pass - wyoming;
fall river pass - colorado;
fremont pass (colorado), near climax, colorado;
gore pass - colorado;
granite pass - wyoming;
guanella pass - colorado;
hagerman pass - colorado;
howse pass - alberta, british columbia;
hoosier pass - colorado;
independence pass - colorado;
imogene pass - colorado;
jonas pass - alberta;
jones pass - colorado;
jones pass - alberta;
kenosha pass - colorado;
kicking horse pass - alberta, british columbia;
la poudre pass - colorado;
logan pass - montana;
lolo pass - montana, idaho;
lookout pass - montana, idaho;
loveland pass - colorado;
macdonald pass - montana;
marshall pass - colorado;
mcclure pass - colorado;
milner pass - colorado;
molar pass - alberta;
molas pass - colorado;
monarch pass - colorado;
monida pass - idaho, montana;
mosca pass - colorado;
mosquito pass - colorado;
muddy pass - colorado;
nez perce pass - idaho, montana;
north molar pass - alberta;
peace river pass - british columbia;
pearl pass - colorado;
poncha pass - colorado;
powder river pass - wyoming;
ptarmigan pass - colorado;
rabbit ears pass - colorado;
raton pass - colorado;
red cone pass - colorado;
red hill pass - colorado;
red mountain pass - colorado;
rollins pass - colorado;
scofield pass - colorado;
shrine pass - colorado;
south pass - wyoming;
sylvan pass - wyoming;
targhee pass - montana, idaho;
taylor pass - colorado;
tennessee pass - colorado;
teton pass - wyoming, idaho;
togwotee pass - wyoming;
trout creek pass - colorado;
tumbling pass - british columbia;
two ocean pass - wyoming;
ute pass - colorado;
vail pass - colorado;
vermilion pass - alberta, british columbia;
wilkerson pass - colorado;
willow creek pass - colorado;
wolf creek pass - colorado;
yellowhead pass - alberta, british columbia;
yellow jacket pass - colorado;

trail ridge road includes milner pass (10,120 ft/3,085 m), but elsewhere attains an elevation of 12,183 ft (3,713 m), making it the highest through paved road in the united states.

selkirk mountains.
rogers pass - british columbia;

 sierra nevada .
carson pass;
donner pass;
fredonyer pass;
sonora pass;
tioga pass;
walker pass;

 tehachapis .
tehachapi pass;
tejon pass;

 south america .

 andes .
paso cardenal caro, chile-argentina (connects between osorno and bariloche) ;
paso libertadores, chile-argentina (main land route between santiago and argentina);
paso el condor, m\e9rida state, venezuela. also known as pico el \c1guila ;






</doc>
<doc id="8421426" title="meningomyelocele" nonfiltered="518" processed="508" dbindex="522">
meningomyelocele is a congenital defect of the central nervous system. meninges and the spinal cord protrude through an opening or defect in the vertebral column.

redirect myelomeningocele;

</doc>
<doc id="338540" title="emperor wen of han" nonfiltered="519" processed="509" dbindex="523">


emperor wen of han (202 bc 157 bc) was an emperor of the han dynasty in china. his given name is heng.

liu heng was a son of emperor gao of han and consort bo, later empress dowager. when emperor gao of han suppressed the rebellion of dai, he created liu heng prince of dai.

after empress dowager l\fc's death, the officials eliminated the powerful l\fc clan, and deliberately chose the prince of dai as the emperor, since his mother, consort bo, had no powerful relatives, and her family was known for its humility and thoughtfulness.  his reign brought a much needed political stability that laid the groundwork for prosperity under his grandson emperor wu. according to historians, emperor wen trusted and consulted with ministers on state affairs; under the influence of his taoist wife, empress dou, the emperor also sought to avoid wasteful expenditures.

historians noted that the tax rates were at a ratio of "1 out of 30" and "1 out of 60", corresponding to 3.33% and 1.67%, respectively.  (these rates are not for income taxes, but property taxes, as the only ancient chinese attempt to levy an income tax would come in the time of wang mang.)  warehouses were so full of grain, that some of it was left to decay.

in a move of lasting importance in 165 bc, emperor wen introduced recruitment to the civil service through examinations. previously, potential officials never sat for any sort of academic examinations. their names were sent by local officials to the central government based on reputations and abilities, which were sometimes judged subjectively.

era names.
these "era names" are not true "era names" in the sense that the era name system, as instituted by emperor wen's son emperor wu, had not come into place.  emperor wen, in accordance to prior imperial calendering systems, would have simply referred to the number of years in his reign, but reset the calendar once at the persuasion of the sorcerer xinyuan ping (   ), thus requiring historians to refer to them separately.

qianyuan (   q\edan yu\e1n) 179 bc-164 bc;
houyuan (   h\f2u y\faan) 163 bc-157 bc;

 early life and career as prince of dai .
in 196 bc, after emperor gao defeated the chen xi (  ) rebellion in the dai region, he created liu heng, his son by consort bo, the prince of dai.  the capital of the principality was at jinyang (  , modern taiyuan, shanxi).  dai was a region on the boundaries with xiongnu, and emperor gao probably created the principality with the mind to use it as a base to defend against xiongnu raids.  for the first year of the principality's existence, chen, whose army was defeated but who eluded capture, remained a threat, until zhou bo (  ) killed him in battle in autumn 195 bc.  it is not known whether at this time prince heng, who was then seven years old, was already in dai, but it appeared likely, because his brother liu ruyi was the only prince at the time explicitly to have been recorded to be remaining at the capital chang'an rather than being sent to his principality.

in 181 bc, after prince heng's brother, prince liu hui of zhao, committed suicide over his marital problems, grand empress dowager l\fc, who was then in effective control of the imperial government, offered the more prosperous principality of zhao to prince heng, but prince heng, judging correctly that she was intending on making her nephew l\fc lu prince, politely declined and indicated that he preferred remaining on the border.  the grand empress dowager then created l\fc lu prince of zhao.

during these years, the principality of dai did in fact become a key position in the defense against xiongnu, and prince heng became well-acquainted with xiongnu customs and military strategies, although the extent of his own participation in military actions was unknown.

 ascension to the throne .
in 180 bc, after grand empress dowager l\fc died and the officials made a coup d'etat against her clan and slaughtered her clan (during the l\fc clan disturbance), after some deliberation, the officials offered the imperial throne to prince heng, rather than prince liu xiang of qi, the oldest grandson of emperor gao.  the key to their decision was that prince xiang's maternal clan was domineering and might repeat the behaviors of the l\fc clan, while the clan of prince heng's maternal clan, the bos, were considered to be kind and humble.  after some hesitation, prince heng, then 23-years-old, accepted the throne as emperor wen.  his nephew, emperor houshao, viewed as a mere puppet of grand empress dowager l\fc and suspected of not being actually a son of emperor wen's older brother emperor hui, was deposed and executed.

 early reign .
emperor wen quickly showed an aptitude to govern the empire with diligence, and appeared to be genuinely concerned for the people's welfare.  heavily influenced by his wife empress dou, who was an adherent to taoism, emperor wen governed the country with the general policies of non-intereference with the people and relaxed laws.  his personal life was marked by thriftiness and general willingness to forgive.  he was initially very deferential to zhou bo, chen ping (  ), and guan ying (  ), who were instrumental in his accession, and they served as successive prime ministers.

examples of emperor wen's policies that showed kindness and concern for the people include:
 in 179 bc, he abolished the law that permitted the arrest and imprisonment of parents, wives, and siblings of criminals, with the exception for the crime of treason.
 in 179 bc, he created a governmental assistance program for those in need.  loans or tax exemptions were offered to widowers, widows, orphans, and seniors without children.  he also ordered that monthly stipends of rice, wine, and meat be given to seniors over 80 years in age, and that additional stipends of cloth and cotton be given to seniors over 90 years in age.
 in 179 bc, he made peace with nanyue, whose king zhao tuo (  ) empress dowager l\fc had offended by an economic embargo and which therefore engaged in raids against the principality of changsha (modern hunan) and the commandery of nan (modern hubei).  emperor wen accomplished this by writing humble yet assertive letters to zhao offering peace with dignity and by caring for zhao's relatives remaining in his native town of zhending (  , in modern shijiazhuang, hebei).
 in 178 bc, after a solar eclipse (then viewed as a symbol of divine displeasure), he requested that officials give him honest criticism and recommend capable individuals for governmental positions.  he also tried to decrease mandatory taxes and hard labor.

in 179 bc, after some hesitation (during which he, apparently influenced by the theory of chanrang (  ), thought that maybe it would be more proper for him to find the wisest person in the empire and offer the throne to him, or that he should consider offering the throne to his uncle liu jiao (  ), the prince of chu; his cousin liu pi (  ), the prince of wu; or his younger brother liu chang (  ), the prince of huainan), he created his oldest son liu qi (   or  , later emperor jing) the crown prince and prince qi's mother, consort dou, empress.

in addition to empress dou, emperor wen also favored consort shen (   ).  despite her favored state, however, she only wore simple dresses rather than elaborate designs, as a means of savings.

emperor wen, during the early part of his reign, was often impressed with suggestions tendered by a young official, jia yi (  ), but opposed by senior officials, he did not promote jia to particularlly high positions; rather, jia was put into a rotation as a teacher for various princes.  jia proposed dividing the larger principalities ruled by branch lines of the imperial family, a proposal that emperor wen agreed with but hesitated to actually carry out, and he did not actually implement jia's proposal, which later might have prevented the rebellion of the seven states.

 middle reign .
an incident otherwise uncharacteristic of emperor wen occurred in 176 bc.  zhou bo, who had been instrumental in emperor wen's becoming emperor and who had by that point retired to his march of jiang ( , in modern linfen, shanxi), was falsely accused of treason.  instead of doing initial investigations first, emperor wen had zhou arrested and incarcerated.  it was only with the intercession of his mother empress dowager bo and his daughter princess changping (    , zhou's daughter-in-law) that zhou was released, and the charges against him dismissed.

in 175 bc, over the objections of jia yi, emperor wen issued an edict permitting any person to mint money (then only in the form of coins) out of copper and tin.  the main beneficiaries of this policy were those with access to copper, including the court official deng tong (  ) (see also below), to whom emperor wen had given a major copper mine in yandao (  , in modern yaan, sichuan), and liu pi, the prince of wu, whose principality had a major copper mine at yuzhang (  , in modern nanchang, jiangxi).

in 174 bc, a major incident occurred involving liu chang, the prince of huainan, who was then emperor wen's only surviving brother.  emperor wen had great affection for him and did not punish him for using styles and ceremonies that only emperors were supposed to use.  also, contrary to imperial laws, prince chang issued edicts within his own principality and also commissioned his own prime minister.  he also carried out executions and created titles for people -- two powers that were also reserved to the emperor.  emperor wen constantly excused him for his indiscretions -- which included assassinating shen yiji (   ), the marquess of piyang -- but eventually became unhappy.  he asked his uncle bo zhao (  ) to write a letter to prince chang to try to change his ways.  instead, prince chang was offended and planned a rebellion.  when the conspiracy was discovered, emperor wen stripped prince chang of his title and exiled him to yandao -- with the intent to teach him a lesson and then summoning him back.  however, on the way, prince chang died -- probably by suicide.  in 172 bc, emperor wen, missing prince chang dearly and still lamenting his death, created his sons liu an, liu bo (  ), liu ci (  ), and liu liang (  ) marquesses, again over jia yi's objection.

also in 174 bc, when xiongnu's new chanyu laoshang came to power, emperor wen continued the heqin policy by giving him a prince's daughter in marriage.

in 170 bc, emperor wen's uncle bo zhao, who had been instrumental in his administration, killed an imperial messenger.  emperor wen forced him to commit suicide.  this incident drew criticism from later historians, who believed that he should have curbed bo's powers in earlier and saved his life in that manner.

in 169 bc, chao cuo (  ), then a low level official, offered emperor wen a number of suggestions at dealing with xiongnu.  emperor wen was impressed, and made him a member of crown prince qi's household.  at chao's suggestion, in 168 bc, emperor wen instituted the policy that if people contributed food for use by the northern defense force against xiongnu, they could receive titles or have their crimes pardoned.

in 167 bc, emperor wen banned the corporal punishments of facial tattoo and cutting off the nose or a foot, and replaced them with whipping.  these punishments would not be instituted against as a matter of formal legal sentencing for the rest of chinese history.  (however, as was later noted, this actually caused more deaths, and so the amount of whipping was further reduced in 156 bc by emperor jing.)

 late reign .
later in his reign, emperor wen became superstitious and started search for supernatural events.  in 165 bc, at the instigation of the sorcerer xinyuan ping (   ), he built a temple north of wei river dedicated to five gods.  he then promoted xinyuan and awarded him with much treasure.  at xinyuang's suggestion, emperor wen planned a thorough revision of the governmental system and the building of many temples.  in 164 bc, xinyuan ping had an associate place a jade cup outside the imperial palace with mysterious writings on them, and also predicted a regression in the path of the sun.  (this phenomenon has never been adequately explained, but might have been actually a partial solar eclipse.)  in response, emperor wen joyously proclaimed an empire-wide festival and also restarted the calendering for his reign.  (therefore, the years 163 bc and on, for the rest of his reign, was known as the later era of his reign.)  however, in winter 164 bc, xinyuan was exposed to be a fraud, and he and his clan were executed.  that ended emperor wen's period of supernatural fascination.

in 158 bc, when xiongnu made a major incursion into the commanderies of shang ( , modern northern shaanxi) and yunzhong (  , modern western inner mongolia, centering hohhot), emperor wen made a visit to the camps of armies preparing to defend the capital chang'an against a potential xiongnu attack.  it was on this occasion when he became impressed with zhou bo's son zhou yafu as a military commander -- compared to the other generals, who, upon the emperor's arrival, dropped all things and did what they could to make the emperor feel welcome, zhou remained on military alert and required the imperial guards to submit to proper military order before he would allow the imperial train to enter.  later, he would leave instructions for crown prince qi that if military emergencies arose, he should make zhou his commander of armed forces -- instructions that were heeded during the rebellion of the seven states.

emperor wen died in summer 157 bc.  he was succeeded by crown prince qi.  emperor wen, in his will, reduced the usual mourning period to three days, contrary to the previous lengthy periods of mourning in which weddings, sacrifices, drinking, and the consumption of meat were disallowed, thus greatly reducing the burden on the people.  he also ordered that his concubines be allowed to return home.  (before and after emperor wen, generally, imperial concubines without children were required to guard the emperor's tomb for the rest of their lives.)

 impact on history .
emperor wen was considered one of the most benevolent rulers in chinese history.  his reign was marked by thriftiness and attempts to reduce burdens on the people.  his reign and that of his son emperor jing were often collectively known together as the rule of wen and jing, renowned for general stability and relaxed laws.

 bisexuality? .
as noted above, emperor wen greatly favored deng tong, for no particular apparent reason, and he gave deng much honor and wealth despite deng's apparent lack of ability.  this, coupled with later references by officials trying to persuade emperor ai against giving his male lover dong xian too much authority -- during which those officials analogized dong's position to deng's -- has led to speculation that emperor wen had a homosexual relationship with deng.  it is quite possible, but also hardly proven based on available evidence.  in 162 bc, emperor wen permitted the prime minister shentu jia (   ) to discipline deng for his arrogance and threaten him with death, before pardoning deng.  in emperor wen's request to shentu asking shentu to be lenient with deng, he called deng his "jester."  this would appear to be contrary to an indication of a romantic relationship.

 personal information .
 father;
  emperor gao of han china;
 mother;
 consort bo;
 wife;
 empress dou (d. 135 bc);
 major concubines;
 consort shen;
 consort ji;
 children;
 crown prince liu qi, later emperor jing of han;
 prince liu wu (  ), initially of dai (created 178 bc), then of huaiyang (created 175 bc), then of liang (created 169 bc) (d. 144 bc), known as prince xiao of liang;
 prince liu can (  ), initially of taiyuan (created 178 bc), later of dai (created 175 bc) (d. 161 bc), known as prince xiao of dai;
 prince liu yi (  ) of liang (d. 169 bc), of a fall from a horse, known as prince huai of liang;
 princess changping;
 liu piao (  ), the princess guantao;













</doc>
<doc id="2374023" title="dinkie dino" nonfiltered="520" processed="510" dbindex="524">



dinkie dino (english/american version, also called dinky dino) or rakuraku dinokun(japanese version) is a sort of digital pet (tamagotchi) featuring a dinosaur (or dino) pet. the animations are very basic but charming and it has a total of 10 functions. dinkie dino was one of the bestselling digital pets of its time. there are now many imposter versions (or fake) that do not have the same functions and can be found cheaply.





</doc>
<doc id="589981" title="franks wild years" nonfiltered="521" processed="511" dbindex="525">


franks  wild years is an album by tom waits, released 1987 on island records.  subtitled "un operachi romantico in two acts", the album contains songs written by waits and collaborators (mainly his wife, kathleen brennan) for a play of the same name.  the shared title of the album and the play is an iteration of "frank's wild years", a song from waits's 1983 album swordfishtrombones.

the play had its world premiere in chicago, illinois on june 22, 1986, performed by the steppenwolf theatre company at the briar st. theatre.

various versions of the track "way down in the hole" have served as the theme music for the hbo series the wire, including waits's original version for the second season.

track listing.
tracks written by tom waits, except where noted.

 "hang on st. christopher"   2:46;
tom waits - vocals;
greg cohen - alto horn, horn arrangements;
ralph carney - tenor sax;
marc ribot - guitar;
william schimmel - leslie bass pedals;
michael blair - drums;
 "straight to the top (rhumba)" (waits / greg cohen)   2:30;
tom waits - vocal, optigon, conga;
greg cohen - leslie bass pedals;
ralph carney - saxes;
larry taylor - upright bass;
michael blair - conga;
william schimmel - pump organ;
 "blow wind blow"   3:35;
tom waits - vocal, pump organ;
greg cohen - alto horn;
francis thumm - pump organ;
michael blair - glockenspiel;
 "temptation"   3:53;
tom waits - optigon, vocals, guitar;
michael blair - percussion, conga, marachas;
ralph carney - saxophone;
morris tepper - guitar;
marc ribot - guitar;
greg cohen - bass, horn arrangements;
kathleen brennan - vocal arrangements;
 "innocent when you dream (bar room)"   4:15;
tom waits - pump organ, vocals;
greg cohen - bass;
ralph carney - violin;
william schimmel - piano;
 "i'll be gone" (waits / kathleen brennan)   3:12;
tom waits - vocal & rooster;
william schimmel - accordion;
greg cohen - bass;
michael blair - marimba;
morris tepper - guitar;
ralph carney - baritone horn;
 "yesterday is here" (waits / brennan)   2:29;
tom waits - vocals, guitar & tambourine;
larry taylor - bass;
 "please wake me up" (waits / brennan)   3:36;
tom waits - vocal, mellotron & optigon;
ralph carney - baritone horn;
greg cohen - bass;
jay anderson - bass;
 "frank's theme"   1:49;
tom waits - vocals, pump organ;
 "more than rain"   3:52;
tom waits - vocal, optigon;
greg cohen - bass;
william schimmel - accordion;
morris tepper - guitar;
francis thumm - prepared piano;
michael blair - orquestra bells;
ralph carney - baritone horn;
 "way down in the hole"   3:30;
tom waits - vocals;
ralph carney - saxes;
michael blair - percussion;
marc ribot - guitar;
angela brown - background vocals;
leslie holland - background vocals;
lynne jordan - background vocals;
greg cohen - bass;
 "straight to the top (vegas)" (waits / cohen)   3:26;
tom waits - vocal stylings;
william schimmel - cocktail piano;
ralph carney - tenor sax;
greg cohen - bass;
michael blair - drums;
 "i'll take new york"   3:58;
tom waits - vocal;
william schimmel - pump organ;
ralph carney - sax;
michael blair - drums;
greg cohen - bass;
 "telephone call from istanbul"   3:12;
tom waits - vocals, farfisa, drums;
greg cohen - bass;
morris tepper - guitar;
marc ribot - banjo;
michael blair - drums;
 "cold cold ground"   4:07;
tom waits - guitars & vocal;
david hidalgo - accordion;
larry taylor - bass;
 "train song"   3:20;
tom waits - piano, vocal, pump organ;
david hidalgo - accordion;
larry taylor - bass;
greg cohen - alto horn;
 "innocent when you dream (78)"   3:08;
tom waits - vocal, pump organ;
greg cohen - bass;
ralph carney - violin;
william schimmel - piano;

musicians.
 jay anderson - bass;
 michael blair - drums, conga, percussion, orquestra bells, marachas, marimba, glockenspiel;
 kathleen brennan - vocal arrangements;
 angela brown - background vocals;
 ralph carney - sax, baritone horn, violin, tenor sax, saxophone;
 greg cohen - bass, alto horn, horn arrangements, leslie bass pedals;
 david hidalgo - accordion;
 leslie holland - background vocals;
 lynne jordan - background vocals;
 marc ribot - guitar, banjo;
 william schimmel - piano, pump organ, accordion, leslie bass pedals, cocktail piano;
 larry taylor - bass, upright bass;
 morris tepper - guitar;
 francis thumm - prepared piano, pump organ;
 tom waits - vocals, pump organ, optigon, guitar, vocal stylings, rooster, piano, farfisa, mellotron, drums, conga, tambourine;

samples.









</doc>
<doc id="5799947" title="machalpur" nonfiltered="522" processed="512" dbindex="526">

machalpur is a town and a nagar panchayat in rajgarh district in the indian state of madhya pradesh.

geography.
machalpur is located at . it has an average elevation of 389 metres (1276 feet).

demographics.
as of 2001 india census, machalpur had a population of 7884. males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. machalpur has an average literacy rate of 53%, lower than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 67%, and female literacy is 39%. in machalpur, 17% of the population is under 6 years of age.

references.








</doc>
<doc id="3663223" title="list of registered historic places in norfolk county, massachusetts" nonfiltered="523" processed="513" dbindex="528">
list of registered historic places in norfolk county, massachusetts:




braintree.
 blue hills reservation parkways-metropolitan park system of greater boston   parts of blue hill rd., chickatawbut rd., hillside st., uniquity rd., wampatuck rd., and green st. (added september 11, 2003);
 gen. sylvanus thayer house   786 washington st. (added 1974);
 thayer public library   2 john f. kennedy memorial dr. (added august 21, 1978);
brookline.
 alfred douglass house   157 clyde st. (added november 17, 1985);
 arcade building (brookline, massachusetts)   314-320a harvard st. (added november 17, 1985);
 beacon street historic district   roughly on beacon st. from saint mary's to ayr rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 beaconsfield terraces historic district   11-25, 33-43, and 44-55 garrison rd. and 316-326, 332-344, and 350-366 tappan st. (added november 17, 1985);
 benjamin white house   203 heath st. (added november 17, 1985);
 brandegee estate   280 newton st. (added november 17, 1985);
 brookline town green historic district   chestnut pl., fairmont, dudley, boyston, walnut and warren sts., hedge, codman, and kennard rds. (added july 22, 1980);
 brookline village commercial district   irregular pattern along washington st. (added june 22, 1979);
 building at 30-34 station street   30-34 station st. (added november 17, 1985);
 candler cottage   447 washington st. (added november 17, 1985);
 chapel church and parish house   15 and 27 saint paul st. and 104 aspinwall ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 charles heath house   12 heath hill (added november 17, 1985);
 chestnut hill historic distric   roughly bounded by middlesex rd., reservoir ln., denny rd., boylston st. and dunster rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 cottage farm historic district   roughly bounded by amory, dummer, lenox, brookline and beacon sts. (added april 29, 1978);
 cypress-emerson historic district   roughly bounded by waverly, emerson, and cypress sts. (added november 17, 1985);
 dr. tappan eustis francis house   35 davis ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 ebenezer heath house   30 heath st. (added november 17, 1985);
 edward devotion house   347 harvard st. (added march 14, 1978);
 eliphalet spurr house   103 walnut st. (added november 17, 1985);
 emmett cottage   217 freeman st. (added november 17, 1985);
 fernwood (brookline, massachusetts)   155 clyde st. (added november 17, 1985);
 fire station no. 7   665 washington st. (added november 17, 1985);
 fisher hill historic district   roughly bounded by clinton and sumner rds., boylston st. and chestnut hill ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 fisher hill reservoir and gatehouse   fisher rd. between hyslop and channing rds. (added february 18, 1990);
 frederick law olmsted national historic site   99 warren st. (added november 15, 1966);
 gen. simon elliot house   61 heath st. (added november 17, 1985);
 george r. minot house   71 sears rd. (added february 7, 1976);
 ginery twitchell house   17 kent st. (added november 17, 1985);
 graffam development historic district   roughly bounded by abbottsford rd., babcock st., manchester, and naples rds. (added november 17, 1985);
 green hill historic district   roughly warren st., sargent rd., and cottage st. (added november 17, 1985);
 hammond pond parkway   hammond pond parkway (added april 18, 2004);
 holyhood cemetery   heath st. (added november 17, 1985);
 hotel adelaide   13-21 high st. (added november 17, 1985);
 hotel kempsford   72 walnut st. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 105 marion street   105 marion st. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 12 linden street   12 linden st. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 12 vernon street   12 vernon st. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 12-16 corey road   12-16 corey rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 155 reservoir   155 reservoir rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 156 mason terrace   156 mason terr. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 19 linden street   19 linden st. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 25 stanton road   25 stanton rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 38-40 webster place   38-40 webster pl. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 4 perry street   4 perry st. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 44 linden street   44 linden st. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 44 stanton road   44 stanton rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 5 lincoln road   5 lincoln rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 53 linden street   53 linden st. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 83 penniman place   83 penniman pl. (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 89 rawson road and 86 colburne crescent   89 rawson rd. and 86 colburne crescent (added november 17, 1985);
 house at 9 linden street   9 linden st. (added november 17, 1985);
 houses at 76-96 harvard avenue   76-96 harvard ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 isaac child house   209 newton st. (added november 17, 1985);
 james h. standish house   54 francis st. (added november 17, 1985);
 john fitzgerald kennedy national historic site   83 beals st. (added june 26, 1967);
 john goddard house   235 goddard ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 john harris house and farm   284 newton st. (added november 17, 1985);
 kilsyth terrace   15-27 kilsyth rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 larz anderson park historic district   bounded by goddard and avon sts. (added november 17, 1985);
 lewis cabot estate   514 warren st. (added november 17, 1985);
 linden park   linden pl. and linden st. (added november 17, 1985);
 linden square   linden pl. (added november 17, 1985);
 longwood historic district   roughly bounded by chapel, st. marys, monmouth, and kent sts. (added october 13, 1978);
 lynch-o'gorman house   41 mason terr. (added november 17, 1985);
 milestone   harvard st. (added november 17, 1985);
 olmsted park system   encompassing the back bay fens, muddy river, olmsted (leverett park), jamaica park, arborway, and franklin park (added 1971);
 paine estate   325 heath st. (added november 17, 1985);
 perkins estate   450 warren st. (added november 17, 1985);
 peter fuller building   808 commonwealth ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 pill hill historic district   roughly bounded by boylston st., pond ave., acron, oakland and highland rds. (added 1977);
 rectory church school and convent   67 harvard st. and 3 and 5 linden pl. (added november 17, 1985);
 reservoir park   boylston st. (added november 17, 1985);
 rev. john orrock house   68 winchester st. (added november 17, 1985);
 richmond court   1209-1217 beacon st. (added august 18, 1985);
 ritchie building   112 cypress st. (added november 17, 1985);
 robert s. davis house   50 stanton rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 roughwood   400 heath st. (added november 17, 1985);
 saint aidan's church and rectory   207 freeman and 158 pleasant sts. (added november 17, 1985);
 saint paul's rectory   130 aspinwall ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 sargent's pond   sargent rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 second unitarian church   11 charles st. (added november 17, 1985);
 st. mark's methodist church   90 park st. (added 1976);
 strathmore road historic district   strathmore rd. and clinton path (added november 17, 1985);
 thaddeus jackson house   15 alberta rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 the house   20 netherlands rd. (added february 24, 1986);
 thomas aspinwall davis house   29 linden pl. (added november 17, 1985);
 timothy corey house no. 1   808 washington st. (added november 17, 1985);
 timothy corey house no. 2   786-788 washington st. (added november 17, 1985);
 town stable   237 cypress st. (added november 17, 1985);
 walnut hills cemetery   grove st. and allandale rd. (added november 17, 1985);
 white place historic district   white pl. between washington st. and davis path (added november 17, 1985);
 william f. tuckerman house   63 harvard ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 william ingersoll bowditch house   9 toxteth st. (added november 17, 1985);
 william murphy house   97 sewall ave. (added november 17, 1985);
 winand toussaint house   203 aspinwall ave. (added november 17, 1985);

canton.
 canton viaduct   neponset and walpole sts. (added october 20, 1984);
 green hill site (added october 25, 1980);
 redman farm house   corner of washington st. and homans la. (added october 25, 1980);
cohasset.
 caleb lothrop house   14 summer st. (added june 3, 1976);
 capt. john wilson house and bates ship chandlery   4 elm st. (added 2002);
 cohasset central cemetery   n. main st. and joy place (added 2002);
 cohasset common historic district   bounded by highland ave., n. main st., william b. long, jr., rd. and robert e. jason rd. (added march 28, 1996);
 government island historic district   border st. (added june 12, 1994);
 josephine m. hagerty house   357 atlantic ave. (added july 4, 1997);
dedham.
 ames schoolhouse   450 washington st. (added april, 1983);
 endicott estate   656 east st. (added april 6, 2002);
 fairbanks house   eastern ave. and east st. (added november 15, 1966);
 norfolk county courthouse   650 high st. (added december 28, 1972);
dover.
 benjamin caryl house   107 dedham st. (added july 2, 2000);
 elm bank   bounded by the charles river to the w, n, and e, and the carriage path to the s, off 900 washington st. (added august 10, 1987);
foxboro.
 amos morse house   77 north st. (added february 9, 1986);
 capt. josiah pratt house   141 east st. (added may 21, 1983);
 foxboro grange hall   11-15 bird st. (added may 21, 1983);
 memorial hall (foxboro, massachusetts)   22 south st. (added may 21, 1983);
 otis cary house   242 south st. (added april 13, 1986);
 seth boyden house   135 oak st. (added december 10, 1983);
 ezra carpenter house   168 south st. (added february 3, 1985) ;
 foxborough state hospital   jct. of chestnut and main sts. (added august 19, 1994);

franklin.
 dean junior college historic district   dean junior college campus (added may 23, 1975);
 franklin common historic district   main, high, union, pleasant st. and church sq. (added april, 2005);
 red brick school   2 lincoln st. (added february 1, 1976);
medfield.
 dwight-derby house   7 frairy st. (added february 17, 2002);
 first baptist church of medfield   438 main st. (added october 11, 2003);
 first parish unitarian church   north st. (added may 18, 1974);
 inness-fitts house and studio/barn   406 main st. (added april 15, 2002);
 medfield state hospital   45 hospital rd. (added february 21, 1994);
 peak house   347 main st. (added october 5, 1975);
 vine lake cemetery   main st. (added may 14, 2005);
medway.
 rabbit hill historic district   roughly bounded by highland, main, franklin, and milford sts. (added may 1, 1988);
millis.
 john partridge house   315 exchange st. (added november 15, 1974);
milton.
 belcher-rowe house   26 governor belcher lane (added may 1, 1982);
 blue hills headquarters   hillside st. (added october 25, 1980);
 blue hills parkway   blue hills parkway (added july 23, 2003);
 brookwood farm   off hillside ave. (added october 25, 1980);
 brush hill historic district   roughly brush hill rd., from robbins st. to bradlee rd., and dana ave., brush hill ln. and fairmount ave. (added september 20, 1998);
 capt. robert b. forbes house   215 adams st. (added december 13, 1966);
 comfort station   blue hill ave. (added october 25, 1980);
 dr. amos holbrook house   203 adams st. (added march 13, 1975);
 eliot memorial bridge   milton (added october 25, 1980);
 g.h. bent company factory   7 pleasant st. (added march 10, 2000);
 gov. thomas hutchinson's ha-ha   100, 122 randolph ave. (added march 13, 1975);
 great blue hill observation tower   milton (added october 25, 1980);
 great blue hill weather observatory   milton (added october 25, 1980);
 massachuetts hornfels-braintree slate quarry (added october 25, 1980);
 metropolitan district commission stable   hillside st. (added october 25, 1980);
 milton cemetery   211 centre st. (added july 2, 2004);
 milton centre historic district   canton ave. between readsdale rd. and thacher and highland sts. (added may 28, 1988);
 milton hill historic district   roughly bounded by adams and school sts., randolph and canton aves. and brook rd. (added july 9, 1995);
 old barn   off hillside st. (added october 25, 1980);
 paul's bridge   neponset valley pkwy., over the neponset river (added 1972);
 railway village historic district   roughly along adams st., from mechanic and church sts., and washington st. (added april 6, 2000);
 refreshment pavillion   hillside st. (added october 25, 1980);
 scott's woods historic district   hillside st. between randolph ave. and mdc blue hills reservation (added december 5, 1992);
 suffolk resolves house   1370 canton ave. (added august 23, 1973);
 us post office-milton main   499 adams st. (added june 30, 1986);
needham.
 amos fuller house   220 nehoiden st. (added april, 1983);
 davis mills house   945 central ave. (added may 1, 1982);
 emery grover building   1330 highland ave. (added september 20, 1987);
 israel whitney house   963 central ave. (added march 25, 1988);
 james smith house   706 great plain ave. (added september 21, 1986);
 joshua lewis house   178 south st. (added may 1, 1982);
 kingsbury-whitaker house   53 glendoon st. (added august 12, 1990);
 mcintosh corner historic district   roughly great plain and central aves. (added february 5, 1989);
 needham town hall historic district   great plain ave. between highland ave. and chapel st. (added december 15, 1990);
 robert fuller house   3 burrill ln. (added october 8, 1987);
 tolman-gay house   1196 central ave. (added july 1, 1982);
 townsend house   980 central ave. (added may 1, 1982);
norfolk.
 norfolk grange hall   28 rockwood rd. (added june 25, 1989);
 stephen turner house   n of norfolk at 187 seekonk st. (added june 10, 1979);
 warelands   n of norfolk at 103 boardman st. (added december 10, 1977);
norwood.
 fred holland day house   93 day st. (added may 18, 1977);
 norwood memorial municipal building   566 washington st. (added november 10, 1996);
quincy.
 a. c. smith & co. gas station   117 beale st. (added march 23, 1994);
 adams academy   8 adams st. (added october 6, 1974);
 adams building   1342-1368 hancock st.; 1-9 temple st. (added july 23, 1983);
 adams national historic site   135 adams st. (added november 15, 1966);
 alfred h. richards house   354 highland ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 arthur alden house   24 whitney rd. (added october 20, 1989);
 barnes house   183 pine st. (added october 20, 1989);
 baxter street historic district   roughly 19-34 baxter st. (added october 20, 1989);
 baxter-king house   270 adams st. (added december 13, 1989);
 bethany congregational church   8 spear st. (added october 20, 1989);
 brown-hodgkinson house   42 bicknell st. (added october 20, 1989);
 building at 1-7 moscow street   1-7 moscow st. (added october 20, 1989);
 building at 51 hunt street   51 hunt st. (added october 20, 1989);
 c. f. pettengill house   53 revere rd. (added december 13, 1989);
 central fire station (quincy, massachusetts)   26 quincy ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 charles e. white house   101 billings rd. (added october 20, 1989);
 charles h. burgess house   17 whitney rd. (added october 20, 1989);
 charles marsh house   248 president's ln. (added october 20, 1989);
 chickatawbut observation tower   chickatawbut rd. (added october 25, 1980);
 christ church   14 quincy st. (added october 20, 1989);
 christ church burial ground   54-60 school st. (added october 20, 1989);
 clarence burgin house   95 president's ln. (added october 20, 1989);
 coddington school   26-44 coddington st. (added october 20, 1989);
 cranch school   270 whitwell st. (added august 5, 1984);
 david l. jewell house   48 grandview ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 dorothy q apartments   36 butler rd. (added october 20, 1989);
 dr. frank davis house   25 elm st. (added october 20, 1989);
 edward j. lennon house   53 taber st. (added october 20, 1989);
 edward miller house   36 miller stile rd. (added april 8, 1990);
 edwin w. marsh house   17 marsh st. (added october 20, 1989);
 elks building   1218-1222 hancock st. (added october 20, 1989);
 faxon house   310 adams st. (added october 20, 1989);
 first baptist church of wollaston   187 warren ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 forbes hill standpipe   reservoir rd. (added february 18, 1990);
 fore river club house   follett and beechwood sts. (added october 20, 1989);
 frank burgess house   355 highland ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 frank w. crane house   11 avon way (added october 20, 1989);
 furnace brook parkway   furnace brook parkway (added april 18, 2004);
 george a. barker house   74 greenleaf st. (added october 20, 1989);
 george a. sidelinger house   19 avon way (added october 20, 1989);
 glover house   249 e. squantum st. (added october 20, 1989);
 granite trust company   1400 hancock st. (added october 20, 1989);
 hancock cemetery   hancock st. in quincy sq. (added february 28, 1982);
 hardwick house   59-61 spear st. (added october 20, 1989);
 henry f. barker house   103 greenleaf st. (added october 20, 1989);
 herman mcintire house   55 dixwell ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 house at 105 president's lane   105 president's ln. (added october 20, 1989);
 house at 15 gilmore street   15 gilmore st. (added october 20, 1989);
 house at 20 sterling street   20 sterling st. (added october 20, 1989);
 house at 23-25 prout street   23-25 prout st. (added october 20, 1989);
 house at 25 high school avenue   25 high school ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 house at 32 bayview avenue   32 bayview ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 house at 92 willard street   92 willard st. (added october 20, 1989);
 house at 94 grandview avenue   94 grandview ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 j. martin nowland house   31 edgemere rd. (added october 20, 1989);
 john adams birthplace   133 franklin st. (added november 15, 1966);
 john halloran house   99 e. squantum st. (added october 20, 1989);
 john quincy adams birthplace   141 franklin st. (added november 15, 1966);
 john r. nelson house   4 brunswick st. (added october 20, 1989);
 john, jr. winthrop iron furnace site (added october 20, 1977);
 jonathan dexter record house   39-41 grandview ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 josiah quincy house   20 muirhead st. (added october 25, 1997);
 lyon's turning mill (added october 25, 1980);
 masonic temple (quincy, massachusetts)   1156 hancock st. (added december 13, 1989);
 massachusetts fields school   rawson rd. and beach st. (added december 13, 1990);
 moswetuset hummock   squantum st., near jct. with morrissey rd. (added august 1, 1970);
 mount wollaston cemetery   20 sea st. (added march 18, 1994);
 munroe building   1227-1259 hancock st. (added october 20, 1989);
 new england telephone building   10 merrymount rd. (added october 20, 1989);
 newcomb place   109 putnam st. (added october 20, 1989);
 nightengale house   24 quincy st. (added october 20, 1989);
 noah curtis house   313 franklin st. (added october 20, 1989);
 pinkham house   79 winthrop ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 pratt-faxon house   75 faxon ln. (added october 20, 1989);
 quincy electric light and power company station   76 field st. (added october 20, 1989);
 quincy granite railway   bunker hill lane (added november 15, 1973);
 quincy granite railway incline   mullin ave. (added july 19, 1973);
 quincy homestead   34 butler road (added august 1, 1970);
 quincy point fire station   615 washington st. (added march 18, 1994);
 quincy police station   442 southern artery (added april 8, 1990);
 quincy savings bank   1370 hancock st. (added october 20, 1989);
 quincy school   94 newbury ave. (added july 23, 1983);
 quincy shore drive   quincy shore drive (added july 23, 2003);
 quincy town hall   1305 hancock st. (added february 11, 1980);
 quincy water company pumping station   106 penn st. (added october 20, 1989);
 randolph bainbridge house   133 grandview ave. (added october 20, 1989);
 russell m. dicey house   56 pope st. (added october 20, 1989);
 s. h. barnicoat monuments   114 columbia st. (added october 20, 1989);
 salem lutheran church   199 granite st. (added october 20, 1989);
 seth spear homestead   47-49 spear st. (added october 20, 1989);
 solomon nightengale house   429 granite st. (added october 20, 1989);
 solon dogget house   50 union st. (added october 20, 1989);
 south junior high school   444 granite st. (added october 20, 1989);
 thomas crane public library   40 washington st. (added november 18, 1972);
 thomas curtis house   279 franklin st. (added october 20, 1989);
 timothy reed house   284 adams st. (added october 20, 1989);
 united states post office-quincy main   47 washington st. (added june 23, 1986);
 united first parish church (unitarian) of quincy   1266 hancock st. (added 1970);
 william r. bateman house   148 monroe rd. (added october 20, 1989);
 winfield house   853 hancock st. (added october 20, 1989);
 wollaston branch, thomas crane public library   41 beale st. (added october 20, 1989);
 wollaston fire station   111 beale st. (added october 20, 1989);
 wollaston theatre   14 beale st. (added october 20, 1989);
 wollaston unitarian church   155 beale st. (added october 20, 1989);
 woodward institute   1098 hancock st. (added december 13, 1989);
randolph.
 gills farm archeological district (added november 24, 1983);
 jonathan belcher house   360 n. main st. (added may 30, 1976);
 ponkapoag camp of appalachian mountain club   randolph (added october 25, 1980);
sharon.
 cobb's tavern   41 bay rd. (added september 7, 1974);
 sharon historic district   both sides of n. main st. from post office sq. to school st. (added september 22, 1975);
 stoneholm   188 ames st. (added may 2, 1980);
 stoughtonham furnace site (added september 16, 1984);
stoughton.
 lucius clapp memorial   6 park st. (added september 18, 1992);
 stoughton railroad station   53 wyman st. (added february 21, 1974);
walpole.
 deacon willard lewis house   33 west st. (added november 29, 1975);
 walpole town hall   main st. (added november 8, 1981);
wellesley.
 eaton-moulton mill   37 walnut st. (added june 16, 1976);
 hunnewell estates historic district   washington st. and pond rd. (added may 14, 1988);
 intermediate building   324 washington st. (added september 27, 1981);
 wellesley farms railroad station   croton st. extension (added march 14, 1986);
 wellesley town hall   525 washington st. (added may 30, 1976);
westwood.
 colburn school-high street historic district   369-649, 390-680 high st. (added july 9, 2000);
 fisher school-high street historic district   748-850; 751-823 high st. (added july 30, 2000);
weymouth.
 central square historic district   roughly, broad st. from middle to putnam sts. and middle from charles to center sts. (added march 13, 1992);
 fogg building   100-110 pleasant st. and 6-10 columbian st. (added april 10, 1983);
 fogg library   1 columbian st. (added july 11, 1981);
 jefferson school   200 middle st. (added june 12, 1981);
 john adams school   16 church st. (added 1985);
 old south union church   25 columbian st. (added may 1, 1982);
 united states post office-weymouth landing   103 washington st. (added june 27, 1986);
 washington school (weymouth, massachusetts)   8 school st. (added july 5, 1986);
 weymouth civic district   75 middle st. (added april 27, 1992);
wrentham.
 plimpton-winter house   127 south st. (added 1985);
 roebuck tavern   21 dedham st. (added june 17, 1984);
 wrentham state school   jct. of emerald and north sts. (added february 21, 1994);






</doc>
<doc id="2147253" title="tommy johnson" nonfiltered="524" processed="514" dbindex="529">

tommy johnson (1896   november 1 1956) was an influential delta blues musician.  he was born in terry, mississippi, and lived most of his life in crystal springs, mississippi. tommy johnson was known to tell a story about how he had sold his soul to the devil in exchange for his mastery of blues guitar. this story closely resembles the same legend of robert johnson. robert johnson, however, was never known to tell this story and it was most likely a rumor started by son house in the 1960s, long after both johnsons were dead.

a well known song by tommy johnson was "canned heat blues".

johnson was sometimes accompanied by papa charlie mccoy. johnson's "big road blues" inspired canned heat's song, "on the road again".

 in fiction .
in the 2000 movie o brother, where art thou? there is a character named tommy johnson (played by chris thomas king) who sold his soul to the devil to play guitar. he plays accompaniment for the soggy bottom boys (a band consisting of the film's three main protagonists plus johnson) on "man of constant sorrow". 

it is debated whether the character was based on tommy or robert johnson. the character of tommy johnson in o brother, where art thou? is reminiscent of the real tommy johnson, who used to talk about how "he sold hisself to the devil" at a crossroads in return for making up songs and playing the guitar. however, tommy johnson, born in 1896, would have been approximately 40 years old in year 1937, at which time the movie is set. the character in the movie is much younger than that, suiting better the descriptions of robert johnson who was approximately 26 years old at the time. furthermore, robert johnson is described (by whites of the time) as being quiet or shy, resembling tommy johnson in the movie who does not speak much. robert johnson had also used the legend of a crossroads, 'borrowing' the idea from tommy johnson. even though the character in the movie has the name tommy, his characteristics can be contributed to both johnsons. the character plays a number of songs by blues musician skip james.


in the adult swim show metalocalypse, the tommy johnson story is parodied when the metal band dethklok is encouraged by blues man "mashed potato johnson" to channel their depression into the blues. he is describe as having sold his soul to the devil and therefore to have a "standard bluesman rapsheet." mashed potato johnson tells the band that every great blues singer has sold his soul to the devil and that this practice is essential to becoming a true blues musician.

 media .




 see also .
sterno;

 external links .
mp3 audio file of "canned heat blues" on the internet archive;
tommy johnson on paramount records;
;














</doc>
<doc id="7299401" title="bruce turgon" nonfiltered="525" processed="515" dbindex="530">
bruce turgon is a bassist who has played in the bands showcase, black sheep, shadow king, and foreigner with singer lou gramm. he also played on the lou gramm solo albums ready or not and long hard look.

he has also released a solo album titled outside looking in.

discography.

with black sheep.
stick around ep;
black sheep;
encouraging words;

lou gramm solo.
ready or not;
long hard look;

with shadow king.
shadow king

with foreigner.
mr. moonlight

bruce turgon solo.
outside looking in

external links.
;
;





</doc>
<doc id="153408" title="spencer family" nonfiltered="526" processed="516" dbindex="531">
there are, of course, many spencer families, comprising all individuals with the surname spencer. the below are the spencer family descended in the male line from a certain henry spencer (died c. 1478), male-line ancestor of the earls of sunderland, the later dukes of marlborough, the earls spencer and lady diana spencer, later the princess of wales

 members of the family .
earls of sunderland.
 henry spencer, 1st earl of sunderland (1620-1643), royalist in the english civil war;
 robert spencer, 2nd earl of sunderland (1640-1702), politician;
 charles spencer, 3rd earl of sunderland (1675-1722), politician;
 robert spencer, 4th earl of sunderland (1701-1729) (elder brother of 3rd duke);

dukes of marlborough.
 charles spencer, 3rd duke of marlborough (1706-1758), general and politician;
 george spencer, 4th duke of marlborough (1739-1817), politician;
 george spencer, 5th duke of marlborough (1766-1840), changed his surname to "spencer-churchill".  his spencer-churchill descendants include all later dukes of marlborough, and their descendants, including the politicians lord randolph churchill and winston churchill.
earls spencer.
 john spencer, 1st earl spencer (1734-1783);
 george john spencer, 2nd earl spencer (1758-1834), politician;
 john charles spencer, 3rd earl spencer (1782-1845), better known as lord althorp, politician;
 frederick spencer, 4th earl spencer (1798-1857);
 john poyntz spencer, 5th earl spencer (1835-1910), politician;
 charles robert spencer, 6th earl spencer (1857-1922);
 albert edward john spencer, 7th earl spencer (1892-1975);
 (edward) john spencer, 8th earl spencer (1924-1992), father of diana, princess of wales;
 charles edward maurice spencer, 9th earl spencer (b.1962), brother of diana, princess of wales;

others.
the barons and viscounts churchill, who descend from a younger son of the 4th duke of marlborough, including;
francis spencer, 1st baron churchill;
victor spencer, 1st viscount churchill;
 george spencer (fr.ignatius of st paul, passionist) (1799 1864);
 diana, princess of wales (1961 1997) (formerly lady diana spencer);
 lady jane fellowes (born 1957), diana's sister;
 lady sarah mccorquodale (n\e9e spencer) (born 1955), diana's sister;
 georgiana, duchess of devonshire (1757 1806);

 non-spencer descendants of the family .
the following individuals are not spencers, but are also descended from the same henry spencer via one or more lines of descent.
 louis auchincloss (born 1917) -  (novelist);
 john calvin coolidge jr (1872 - 1933) (us president);
 charles darwin (1809 - 1882) - author of the origin of species;
 sir alec douglas-home - (prime minister);
 john dryden - (1631 - 1700) - (poet);
 antonia fraser (born 1932) -  author;
 robert goddard (1882 - 1945) - (rocket scientist);
 dubose heyward (1885 - 1940) - author of porgy and bess;
 oliver wendell holmes (1841 - 1935) - us supreme court justice from 1902-1932.
 lady caroline lamb (1785 - 1828) - novelist, mistress of lord byron;
 gavin maxwell (1914 - 1969) -  naturalist, author of the ring of bright water;
 franklin delano roosevelt (1882 - 1945) (us president) - descendant of the spencer family via both parents;
 jonathan swift (1667 - 1745) - author of gulliver's travels;
 elizabeth ii of the united kingdom (born 1926) -  queen;
 charles, prince of wales (born 1948);
 prince william of wales (born 1982) - (second in line to british throne);
 prince harry of wales (born 1984) - (third in line to british throne);
 george washington (1731/2 - 1799) u.s. president;

it has been claimed that several well known authors such as jane austen and george orwell are descendants of the same family, but evidence for this is limited.

 marriage into the family .
sir anthony eden (prime minister). married the niece of his prime ministerial predecessor, winston churchill.

 external links .
 family tree and information - archived link;
 http://homepages.rootsweb.com/~djmurphy/conn/washington.htm;



</doc>
<doc id="5332560" title="port road, adelaide" nonfiltered="527" processed="517" dbindex="533">

port road (state route a7) is a major road in adelaide, south australia connecting the central business district with port adelaide. it is twelve kilometres (7.5mi) long and exceptionally wide. when first conceived upon the establishment of adelaide, it was designed to be able to accommodate a standard road, a railway line and a canal. the canal and railway line were never created in the road allotment - the railway line when built in 1853 was built a kilometre to the east.

in the 1968 mats plan the road was destined to be upgraded to become the port freeway. the plan fell through, yet in 2005 the government of south australia announced a 600m tunnel for south road underneath port road and the railway line.

external links.
south australian history: port adelaide;





</doc>
<doc id="1827046" title="god he reigns" nonfiltered="528" processed="518" dbindex="534">

god he reigns is the fourteenth album in the live praise and worship series of christian contemporary music by hillsong. it reached #2 on the australian album charts and the dvd hit #1. initially, there was doubt as to the commercial success of the album as the release coincided with the release of new albums by guy sebastian and paulini, but in that week more copies of god he reigns were sold than every other cd in australia combined (including pop charts, alternative, rock, et cetera).

making of the album.
god he reigns was recorded live at the sydney entertainment centre on 27 february 2005 by darlene zschech and the hillsong team. 

track listing.
disc 1:
 "let creation sing" (words and music: reuben morgan);
 "salvation is here" (words and music: joel houston);
 "his love" (words and music: raymond badham);
 "emmanuel" (words and music: morgan);
 "saviour" (words and music: darlene zschech);
 "wonderful god" (words and music: ned davies);
 "god he reigns"/"all i need is you" (chorus) (words and music: marty sampson);
 "yours is the kingdom" (words and music: houston);
 "welcome in this place" (words and music: miriam webster);

disc 2:
 "let us adore" (words and music: morgan);
 "all for love" (words and music: mia fieldes);
 "know you more" (words and music: zschech);
 "there is nothing like" (words and music: sampson & jonas myrin);
 "what the world will never take" (words and music: matt crocker, scott ligertwood & sampson);
 "tell the world" (words and music: jonathan douglass, houston & sampson);

the two-disc music dvd has an extra track: "praise in the highest" as an 'opener', as well as documentaries.

note.
the album chronology lists only the albums in the live praise and worship series.






</doc>
<doc id="400994" title="geombinatorics" nonfiltered="529" processed="519" dbindex="535">
geombinatorics is a mathematical research journal () published by the university of colorado, usa, since 1991 under an international board of editors. it is devoted to problems in discrete, convex and combinatorial geometry, and related areas.

unlike many other mathematical journals, its articles feature a less formal style, hence more accessible for students.

paul erd s was an editor and active contributor of geombinatorics.

external link.
geombinatorics home page;


</doc>
<doc id="8082798" title="dra\b8" nonfiltered="530" processed="520" dbindex="536">



dra\b8 is a village and municipality in osijek-baranja county, croatia. there are 2,278 inhabitants, 68% of whom are croats and 26% of whom are hungarians (2001 census).

name.

its name derived from the slavic word "dra\b8" ("savour" in english). 

geography.

it is situated between border with hungary in the north, border with serbia in the east, municipality of kne\b8evi vinogradi in the south, and municipality of popovac in the south-west.

the municipality of dra\b8 include following settlements:
dra\b8;
batina;
dubo\a8evica;
gaji ;
podolje;
topolje;

 see also .
 osijek-baranja county;
 baranja;

 external links .
 dra\b8;








</doc>
<doc id="3609260" title="frank evers" nonfiltered="531" processed="521" dbindex="537">
frank evers is a cartoonist known for his editorial cartoons.  he received the national cartoonist society editorial cartoon award for 1979.

external links.
ncs awards;



</doc>
<doc id="628354" title="kdsm-tv" nonfiltered="532" processed="522" dbindex="538">


kdsm-tv is a television station that broadcasts on channel 17 in des moines, iowa. it is an affiliate of the fox broadcasting company and serves most of central iowa. its transmitter is located near alleman, iowa.

history.
des moines' first television station, kgtv, signed on channel 17 in 1953. (woi-tv in ames was the only television station serving central iowa at that point, as who-tv and krnt-tv, now kcci, had yet to sign on.) financial problems, coupled with the fact that very few television sets were able to get uhf signals at the time, forced kgtv off the air after less than a year. the kgtv calls now reside on the abc affiliate in san diego, california, broadcasting on channel 10.

channel 17 remained silent for nearly 30 years until kcbr, "the great entertainer," signed on in march 1983 as iowa's first independent television station. kcbr's call letters were changed to kdsm ("dsm" is the iata airport code for the des moines international airport) two years later, and in 1987 kdsm became one of the charter affiliates of the fox network.

kdsm came under the ownership of river city broadcasting in 1991. in 1996, sinclair acquired the station as part of its purchase of river city.

programming.
kdsm carries all fox network programs, including the 4kids tv children's lineup. syndicated programs on kdsm's current schedule include maury, the jerry springer show, and reruns of the simpsons, seinfeld, frasier, and everybody loves raymond. kdsm also bills itself as "iowa's sports superstation," as it carries university of iowa and other big ten conference football and men's basketball games in addition to fox sports programming.

on march 4, 2001, kdsm debuted fox 17 news at nine. the newscast is produced by kgan-tv in cedar rapids, and uses kgan's anchors along with local reporters in des moines. (both stations are owned by the sinclair broadcast group.) it is transmitted through fiber optic connections from cedar rapids to des moines. the newscast is now known as fox news at nine after kfxa in cedar rapids began simulcasting it in late 2002.

sinclair and fox cut a six-year affiliation contract extension for sinclair's 19 fox affiliates; thus, fox will remain on kdsm at least through march 2012.

at midnight on january 6, 2007, sinclair pulled kdsm from mediacom cable systems in central iowa, including those in des moines and ames, as part of mediacom's ongoing retransmission dispute with sinclair. kdsm began offering $150 rebates (payable as $10 monthly bill credits) for mediacom subscribers to switch to directv during that time period. mediacom offered free dipole antennas to subscribers and aired programming from other cable networks in kdsm's place during the impasse.  the impasse, which attracted attention from lawmakers in iowa and in washington, d.c., ended on february 2 when mediacom announced that it had signed a retransmission consent agreement with sinclair. kdsm was restored to mediacom systems shortly after the announcement.

linsey grams anchors fox news at nine weekdays, with kevin hall with sports and mark anthony with weather.  jennifer stagg anchors fox news at nine weekends, with jared aarons doing sports and dave towne with weather.

references.

 stein, jeff, making waves: the people and places of iowa broadcasting (isbn 0-9718323-1-5). cedar rapids, iowa: wdg communications, 2004.

external links.
 kdsm website;
 ;









</doc>
<doc id="3075206" title="holland mccombs" nonfiltered="533" processed="523" dbindex="539">
james holland mccombs (august 5, 1901-june 29, 1991) was an american journalist.

born in martin, tennessee, holland mccombs became a correspondent for time magazine in 1935, and later bureau chief for time and life magazine in rio de janeiro, buenos aires, mexico city, and dallas.

in 1957, he collaborated on the book king ranch with tom lea iii.

he became acquainted with clay shaw of the international trade mart in new orleans and befriended shaw and became his business partner. after john f. kennedy was assassinated in 1963, gerald ford began the warren commission into the kennedy assassination. will lang jr., bureau head of life's washington d.c. branch told mccombs to send him all information regarding the commission's findings and to purchase the zapruder film for analysis. a month or so after the investigation started, mccombs informed will lang jr. that he had to stop the investigation because his close friend and business partner clay shaw was suspected of being a conspirator in the kennedy assassination.

he died at age 89 at his home in san antonio, texas.  the holland mccombs center at the university of tennessee at martin is named for him.

external links.
university of tennessee-martin biographical note and index to holland mccombs archives;
john kelin, "holland mccombs:the investigation that never was;
holland mccombs, "as it was on a martin farm in the early century" (1972);
"ex-time bureau chief  holland  mccombs dies", dallas morning news, july 1, 1991, page 15a.





</doc>
<doc id="4061657" title="michael begley" nonfiltered="534" processed="524" dbindex="540">


michael begley (born 1932) was an irish fine gael politician.  he was first elected to d\e1il \c9ireann on his second attempt at the 1969 general election for kerry south.  four years later in 1973 fine gael came to power in coalition government with the labour party.  in 1975 begley became a parliamentary secretary following the death of henry kenny.  he served in that position until 1977.  in 1981 he became parliamentary secretary to the minister for industry and commerce in the government of garret fitzgerald.  he served in this capacity until 1982 when the government fell.  begley remained a teachta d\e1la until losing his seat at the 1989 general election to labour's michael moynihan.  he then retired from politics.



















</doc>
<doc id="3481418" title="land beyond the map" nonfiltered="535" processed="525" dbindex="541">


land beyond the map is a short science fiction novel written by kenneth bulmer in 1961 and published by ace books. it was published in an ace double, which also contained another short novel, fugitive of the stars by edmond hamilton, on the opposite side.


the novel features a story about a magical map of ireland which is torn down the middle.  when the holder of the map reaches the place corresponding to the tear in the map, he is transported to a strange alternate dimension.

though this novel bears some thematic similarities to bulmer's later keys to the dimensions series, it is otherwise unrelated.

 external links .
 "ace double reviews, 68: land beyond the map, by kenneth bulmer/fugitive of the stars, by edmond hamilton (#m-111, 1965, $0.45)" - a book review by rich horton;







</doc>
<doc id="1587093" title="pita, guinea" nonfiltered="536" processed="526" dbindex="542">

pita is a town in the fouta djallon highlands of guinea, lying south west of lab\e9.  it is known for its bakeries and for waterfalls including the kinkon falls and kambadaga falls.




</doc>
<doc id="30659" title="triangulum" nonfiltered="537" processed="527" dbindex="543">
for the southern constellation, see triangulum australe.;


triangulum (ipa: ) is a small northern constellation whose three brightest stars, of third and fourth magnitude, form an elongated triangle. it is one of the 88 modern constellations, and also one of the 48 listed by ptolemy.

notable features.
triangulum has no stars of the first magnitude. its brightest stars are trianguli (3.00m) and trianguli (3.41m).

notable deep sky objects.
triangulum is the location of the triangulum galaxy, m33, one of the members of the local group.  it is about 2.9 million light years away, and at magnitude 5.8 is sufficiently bright that it can be glimpsed with the naked eye under dark skies.

history and mythology.
an early name of the constellation was sicilia, because ceres, patron goddess of sicily, was claimed to have begged jupiter that the island be placed in the heavens.

see also.
list of stars in triangulum;

 external links .
 the deep photographic guide to the constellations: triangulum;

ur mom
 






































</doc>
<doc id="3649204" title="port hardy water aerodrome" nonfiltered="538" processed="528" dbindex="544">







port hardy water aerodrome, , is located adjacent to port hardy, british columbia, canada.

see also.
port hardy airport;

references.
;








</doc>
<doc id="6374432" title="martelo" nonfiltered="539" processed="529" dbindex="545">
a martelo is a type of kick as practiced in capoeira.

it is performed by rotating the standing leg in, raising the kicking leg's knee and stretching the lower leg to make contact with the opponent with the instep part of the foot. control and precision are more important than force and inflicting damage.

in most games -depending on the style of the group- a martelo is not used to damage as much as to briefly sting the opponent in between a quick succession of moves.







</doc>
<doc id="9050887" title="the hardest logic puzzle ever" nonfiltered="540" processed="530" dbindex="546">


three gods a, b, and c are called, in some order, true, false, and random. true always speaks truly, false always speaks falsely, but whether random speaks truly or falsely is a completely random matter. your task is to determine the identities of a, b, and c by asking three yes-no questions; each question must be put to exactly one god. the gods understand english, but will answer all questions in their own language, in which the words for yes and no are 'da' and 'ja', in some order. you do not know which word means which. ] (1996), p. 62]


boolos provides the following clarifications:

 it could be that some god gets asked more than one question (and hence that some god is not asked any question at all).

 what the second question is, and to which god it is put, may depend on the answer to the first question. (and of course similarly for the third question.);

 whether random speaks truly or not should be thought of as depending on the flip of a coin hidden in his brain: if the coin comes down heads, he speaks truly;if tails, falsely.

 random will answer 'da' or 'ja' when asked any yes-no question. ;


 history .

the so-called "hardest logic puzzle ever" was coined as such by george boolos (first published in la repubblica 1992 under the title "l indovinello pi\f9 difficile del mondo"). boolos credits the logician raymond smullyan as the originator of the puzzle and john mccarthy (computer scientist) with adding the difficulty of not knowing what 'da' and 'ja' mean. related puzzles can be found throughout smullyan s writings, e.g. in what is the name of this book?, pp. 149-156, he describes a haitian island where half the inhabitants are zombies (who always lie) and half are humans (who always tell the truth) and explains that "the situation is enormously complicated by the fact that although all the natives understand english perfectly, an ancient taboo of the island forbids them ever to use non-native words in their speech. hence whenever you ask them a yes-no question, they reply 'bal' or 'da' - one of which means yes and the other no. the trouble is that we do not know which of 'bal' or 'da' means yes and which means no". there are other related puzzles in the riddle of sheherazade (see especially, p. 114).


more generally this puzzle is based off of smullyan's famous knights and knaves puzzles (e.g. there are two doors with two guards. one guard lies and one guard doesn't. one door leads to heaven and one door leads to hell. the puzzle is to find out which door leads to heaven by asking one of the guards one question. one way to do this is to ask "which door would the other guard say leads to hell?"). a version of this puzzle was popularised by a scene in the 1980's fantasy film, labyrinth (film).

 the solution .

boolos provided his solution in the same article in which he introduced the puzzle.  boolos states that the "first move is to find a god that you can be certain is not random, and hence is either true or false".  there are many different questions that will achieve this result. one strategy is to use complicated logical connectives in your questions (either biconditionals or some equivalent construction).

boolos' question was:
 does 'da' mean yes if and only if you are true if and only if b is random? (see );


the puzzle's solution can be simplified by using counterfactuals, such as:

 if i asked you 'is a random?', would you say 'ja'? (see  and ).

 external links .

george boolos. the hardest logic puzzle ever. the harvard review of philosophy, 6:62 65, 1996.;
roberts t.s. some thoughts about the hardest logic puzzle ever. journal of philosophical logic, 30:609 612(4), december 2001.;
a simple solution to the hardest logic puzzle ever;
an illustration of the puzzle;








</doc>
<doc id="640366" title="list of lakes in the lake district" nonfiltered="541" processed="531" dbindex="547">
this list contains the lakes, tarns and reservoirs in the lake district national park in cumbria, england.

alcock tarn, east of grasmere, below heron pike;
angle tarn, north of bowfell;
angle tarn, east of patterdale, by angletarn pikes;
bassenthwaite lake;
beacon tarn in the blawith fells, west of coniston water;
blackbeck tarn on haystacks;
bleaberry tarn, north of red pike, near buttermere;
blea tarn, near boot, eskdale;
blea tarn, between pike of blisco and lingmoor fell;
blea tarn, on watendlath fell, north of ullscarf;
blea water, below high street;
blelham tarn, west of windermere;
blind tarn, on the east side of the ridge south of dow crag;
boretree tarn, west of the southern end of windermere;
bowscale tarn, on the slopes of bowscale fell;
brothers water;
burnmoor tarn, between eskdale and wasdale;
buttermere;
chapelhouse reservoir, south-east of uldale;
codale tarn, east of high raise and the langdale pikes;
coniston water;
crummock water;
dale head tarn, between dale head and high spy;
derwent water;
devoke water;
dock tarn, east of rosthwaite, south of watendlath;
easedale tarn, west of grasmere;
elter water;
ennerdale water;
esthwaite water;
floutern tarn, north of great borne;
goat's water, west of the old man of coniston;
grasmere;
greendale tarn, by middle fell near wasdale;
grisedale tarn, between fairfield and dollywaggon pike;
gurnal dubs, west of garnett bridge;
harrop tarn, in the wythburn fells, west of thirlmere;
haweswater reservoir;
hayeswater;
high dam tarn, west of the southern end of windermere;
high house tarn, south of glaramara;
innominate tarn, on haystacks;
kentmere reservoir;
knipe tarn, south-east of bowness-on-windermere;
lanty's tarn, west of patterdale;
levers water, on the east side of the coniston fells;
lingmoor tarn, on lingmoor fell;
little langdale tarn;
little tarn, near orthwaite, south of uldale;
littlewater tarn, near bampton;
loughrigg tarn, below loughrigg;
loweswater;
low tarn, south of red pike, between yewbarrow and the seatallan-haycock ridge;
low water, north of the old man of coniston;
meadley reservoir, by flat fell, ennerdale;
moss eccles tarn, between windermere and esthwaite water;
over water, south of uldale;
parkgate tarn, near eskdale;
potter tarn, west of garnett bridge;
red tarn (helvellyn), below the summit of helvellyn;
red tarn (langdale), between cold pike and pike of blisco;
rydal water;
scales tarn, below the summit of blencathra and sharp edge;
scoat tarn, below red pike and scoat fell;
seathwaite tarn, west of the coniston fells;
siney tarn, north of eskdale;
skeggles water, between kentmere and longsleddale;
small water, between mardale ill bell and harter fell;
sprinkling tarn, between scafell pike and seathwaite fell;
stickle tarn, below pavey ark in the langdale pikes;
styhead tarn, at the head of styhead gill, at sty head pass, between scafell pike and great gable;
tarn at leaves on rosthwaite fell;
tarn hows;
tewet tarn, below low rigg near st john's in the vale;
thirlmere;
three dubs tarn, between windermere and esthwaite water;
three tarns, between bowfell and crinkle crags;
ullswater;
wast water;
watendlath tarn;
wet sleddale reservoir;
windermere;
wise een tarn, between windermere and esthwaite water;
yew tree tarn, between holme fell and tarn hows;

 former lakes, tarns and reservoirs .
keppel cove tarn, north of catstycam, dam destroyed by flood, 1931;





</doc>
<doc id="5794895" title="jagiroad" nonfiltered="542" processed="532" dbindex="548">

jagiroad is a census town in marigaon district in the indian state of assam.

demographics.
as of 2001 india census, jagiroad had a population of 17,254. males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%. jagiroad has an average literacy rate of 75%, higher than the national average of 59.5%: male literacy is 80%, and female literacy is 69%. in jagiroad, 12% of the population is under 6 years of age.








</doc>
<doc id="4260583" title="ceratomia amyntor" nonfiltered="543" processed="533" dbindex="549">

the elm sphinx (ceratomia amyntor) is a north american species of moth in the sphingidae family. it has a wingspan of 3 1/4 - 4 1/2 inches (8.2 - 11.5 cm). as the name suggests, the larvae (caterpillars) feed on elm trees (ulmus), but they can also be found feeding on birch (betula), basswood (tilia), and cherry (prunus). when the caterpillars are ready, they crawl to the bottom of the host tree, where they pupate and overwinter underground.





external links.
elm sphinx moths of america;






</doc>
<doc id="3528673" title="jagraon" nonfiltered="544" processed="534" dbindex="550">


 

jagraon is a sub-division (tehsil) of ludhiana district, a city of punjab, which is more than five centuries old.  the city's original name was "jagar aon", which means 'a place of great flooding', although this flooding has since ceased.  jagraon is located at almost the geographical center of punjab state, only 16 kilometers from the river satluj. the society, like much of punjab, is basically agrarian. jagraon is also headquarters of one of the police districts of punjab.

 historical and religious significance .

jagraon is an important religious center for the sikhs, the muslims as well as the jain community.  gurudwara nanaksar sahib is one of the important places of worship for the sikhs.  gurudwara mehdiana sahib is known for its unique depiction of scenes from sikh history, especially those of so called "atrocities" committed on sikhs by the muslim rulers, in the form of life-sized statues.  the muslim places of worship include the famous 'khan gah' and the mausoleum of mai jeena, where a three day annual fair, called 'roshni mela' is held every spring.

the jain temple is one of the most holy places for the jain community in the region. the temple has peaceful ambience and lush green gardens which attracts pilgrims for the annual 'diksha mahotsav' in the third week of march.  the old walled city, with its four gates is known locally for its moghal period architecture.  even the local market within the walled city is known as 'anarkali  bazaar', after the seat of beauty at emperor akbar's court. 
jagraon is also the home of lala lajpat rai, one of the most brave and influential leaders of the freedom struggle of india.  his house still stands tall in the neighbourhood, and houses a municipal library.
 
 jagraon future expansion .

the city's major industry, besides agriculture, is rice shelling, with more than 100 shellers operating.  jagraon is also asia's second largest grain collector after khanna (also in district ludhiana, punjab).
jagraon hosts the second largest animal market of punjab, after vallah, near amritsar. 
the site for the proposed greenfield international airport to be made operational by 2010, is 16 kilometers from the city center.
the cluster of educational institutions and colleges at sidhwan, 7 kilometers from jagraon, (in which the college of law is the latest addition), is a center for professional and vocational education for women in the state.

 location .

jagraon is connected by rail and road.  it is located at the junction of national highways no. 95 and 71.  the nearest airports are: halwara (16 km), sahnewal (45 km) and adampur (70 km).  the nearest international ports are guru ram das international airport, rajasansi (150 km), wagha landport (border with pakistan) (162 km) and indira gandhi international airport, new delhi (360 km).

area code (telephone) 91-1624
 
see also: mullanpur.






</doc>
<doc id="4433141" title="royal navy propellant factory, caerwent" nonfiltered="545" processed="535" dbindex="551">
the royal navy propellant factory, caerwent, monmouthshire, (later raf caerwent) uk was associated with the manufacture or storage of ammunition components from 1939 to 1993. it is now used for a variety of military and civil purposes, including field exercises, car rallying, storage and breakdown of railway vehicles, and nature preservation.

the site of about 6 square kilometres measures 2 miles (3 km) by 1.5 miles (2 km), with its own railway system (linked to the national network), many private roads and a wide range of buildings, from small earth-banked stores to large four storey lightly-built brick buildings. the perimeter road inside the security fence, is on its own, over seven miles long. 

rn propellants factory 1939 to 1965.
the site was created as a royal navy propellants factory in 1939.

note: the royal navy propellant factory, caerwent, like the royal navy cordite factory, holton heath, were never part of the ministry of supply / royal ordnance factory management chain; they were controlled by the admiralty. however, they were functionally very similar to explosive rofs.

in the summer of 1936 the site requirements for a new factory were drawn up. the main priorities were that the establishment should not be vulnerable to air attack; it should not be located in an industrial area, but sufficiently close to a populated area to provide an adequate workforce; the site should be close to a railway and to main roads; it should be located on rough grassland with a gravel on sand subsoil with good natural drainage and a slope of about 1 in 30 to provide maximum safety in the highly dangerous nitroglycerin manufacturing and handling areas. the higher part should not have an elevation of not less than 100 ft. (30 metre) above the lowest part to limit the internal gradients. 

like all explosive factories of this type, a capacious supply of water was required for use in the manufacturing processes. to manufacture 150 tons of cordite per week the factory would need 3 million imperial gallons (14,000 m\b3) of drinking quality water per day. 
in the final quarter of 19th century the great western railway (gwr) had undertaken the impressive engineering feat of constructing the severn tunnel. one of the major difficulties encountered underground was the 'great spring', which necessitated the pumping of over 9 million gallons (41,000 m\b3) of water per day at sudbrook from the western end of the tunnel, conveniently located only three miles (5 km) away from the proposed site at caerwent. even during the great drought of 1934 the lowest daily return was 9.1 million imperial gallons (41,000 m\b3). the gwr used about 1.5 million imperial gallons (6,800 m\b3) per day themselves, so there was always a guaranteed daily surplus of 7.5 million imperial gallons (34,000 m\b3).

the total area acquired was 1,580 acres (6.39 km\b2) of land, a total of 1,163 acres (4.7 km\b2) were enclosed within the factory fence. it was connected to the great western railway near sudbrook via a private branch line, sometimes known as the mod caerwent sidings; and a number of transfer sidings were laid out inside the factory fence. the site is situated north of the a48 road  4 miles west of chepstow and 12 miles (19 km) east of newport. it is about 2 miles (3 km) east-west, and 1.5 miles (2 km) north-south. the site was and still is one of the largest military sites in britain.

the site consumed the village of dinham which was located within the boundary of the rnpf caerwent.

by the end of 1940 the main office block was complete, and in december of that year the unit 1 sulphuric acid factory went into production with acid mixing for the nitrocellulose and nitroglycerine manufacturing. five months later, the pressure oxidation plant for the manufacture of nitric acid came on stream. in august 1941 the nitrocellulose and nitroglycerine plants were operational and were soon working 24 hours a day on a three-shift pattern. at the same time, unit 2 of the factory was almost completed, so rnpf caerwent was now virtually operational. 

a total of \a34.7 million was spent on buildings and roads, and \a32.5 million on plant and equipment. 

early in the 1960s a parliamentary working party recommended that propellants for the three branches of the armed services should be concentrated at the royal ordnance factory at bishopton. the decision to close rnpf caerwent was announced on the 25 march 1965. production continued during the following two year rundown phase.

weapons storage 1967-1993.
raf caerwent was transferred to us administration after de gaulle expelled the us military from france in 1967. caerwent thus became part of the us army european 'theatre reserve stocks' under the command of the united states army's "47th area support group reserve storage activity", with an raf liaison party also present.

the us army spent over \a34 million constructing 300 magazines and converting some of the former rnpf structures to conform to the required specification. the material stored included small arms ammunition, artillery shells (up to 8"), anti-tank mines, grenades, flares and the multiple launch rocket system. the first shipments of shells, rockets, mines, flares and small arms ammo arrived early in 1968. maintenance facilities were added in 1971.

in the early 1970s the site's capacity was expanded substantially, which allowed the closure of three other munitions bases in the west midlands (bramshall, ditton priors and fauld) in 1973. one of the reasons caerwent was retained was its proximity to barry docks where many of the armaments entered the united kingdom.

at its height caerwent was the largest ammunition supply depot in western europe, storing over 80,000 tonnes of conventional munitions. in 1990 caerwent shipped 12,000 tons of ammunition to the middle east and played a critical part in operation desert shield and desert storm. 

following the change in the political climate in europe and subsequent scaling down of operations, the us army announced it was to close down their storage operations at the establishment in june 1992. over 60,000 tonnes of munitions were moved out over a period of less than ten months. the last batch was removed by train on the 19 july 1993. the formal closure ceremony took place on the 20 august 1993.

present day.
the base is now maintained by a small army staff as a 'training area' for troops from beachley barracks and further afield. a 'representative sample' of the bomb storage and processing structures of this vast site can now be seen on the latest ordnance survey map showing roughly 200 structures. previous editions showed the site as completely blank, but serviced by a railway line.

caerwent is now a major training area covering over 1,500 acres (6 km\b2), capable of sustaining up to 1,000 troops. there are not only over 400 buildings and bunkers on the site, but also an operating railway and a comprehensive road system, for logistics exercises and driver training.

the site has been used for military training and public order training by various police forces. local farmers are allowed to graze their livestock on the convenient areas of pasture that separate the former factory buildings. 

parts of the site have also been let for civilian usage, including driver training and car rallying.

since the privatisation of british rail, rnpf caerwent like a number of other mod sites with internal railway sidings, has been used as a secure storage area for holding surplus locomotives and rolling stock that might be returned to use. a small number of electric locomotives, particularly in the british rail class 86 and british rail class 87, have been scrapped at rnpf caerwent; also, british rail mark 2 carriages.

see also.
'the factory' a history of the royal navy propellant factory, caerwent by medwyn parry ;
subterranea site visit with photographs;
multimap map and aerial imagery;
aerial photograph 1999;

references.
 bowditch, m.r. and hayward, l., (1996). a pictorial record of the royal naval cordite factory, holton heath. wareham: finial publishing. isbn 1-900467-01-1.
 cocroft, wayne d., (2000). dangerous energy: the archaeology of gunpowder and military explosives manufacture. swindon: english heritage. isbn 1-85074-718-0.
 walker, thomas a., (1888). the severn tunnel: its construction & difficulties: 1872 - 1887. republished 2004. stroud: nonsuch publishing. isbn 1-84588-000-5.







</doc>
<doc id="2026752" title="kathleen parker" nonfiltered="546" processed="536" dbindex="552">
kathleen parker is an award-winning u.s. columnist whose columns frequently focus on family and sex roles. she writes for the orlando sentinel; however, her column is syndicated nationally.  parker is also the director of the school of written expression at the buckley school of public speaking, and a frequent contributor to the chris matthews show. mrs. parker grew up in florida and currently resides in south carolina with her husband and son.  .  
external links. 
 parker's column archives at jewish world review website;




</doc>
<doc id="1891677" title="ishe smith" nonfiltered="547" processed="537" dbindex="553">

ishe oluwa kamau ali "sugar shay" smith (b. july 22, 1978, las vegas) is a professional boxer, and was a competitor on the first season of the reality tv show the contender.

personal life.
a devoted christian, ishe and his wife latoya, have been compared to rocky and his wife adrian.  they have one son. smith was declared bankrupt after run-ins with certain agents and managers, but has come back with the teetotal religious zeal that saw him unbeaten in his first four years as a professional. he wears psalm 27 () on the back of his shorts. "ishe oluwa" in the yoruba language means gods work.

the smith family was joined by the youngest member of the family ajani smith, a boy, when latoya smith gave birth on february 2nd, 2006.

boxing career.

smith's career highlight may be taking three minor  vacant titles in one fight; the vacant wbc continental americas welterweight title, the vacant usba welterweight title and the vacant wbo nabo welterweight title.

 the contender .

he beat alfonso gomez in 2001, and the two became roommates when they were contestants on reality tv show the contender. on the show, he was placed on the west coast team and fought his rival ahmed khaddour in the third episode's fight, a bout which was steel-tipped by the pair's frosty relationship. smith also did not enamour himself to anthony bonsante, who he criticised for fighting someone he wasn't meant to - despite the bout having no bearing on smith's standing in the competition.

when juan de la rosa was medically disqualified at the end of the first round fight, certain other boxers bought back khaddour, a tactic employed to get under smith's skin. after brinkley criticised him for speaking his mind too often and being intimidated by him, brinkley selected him to fight sergio mora, the tournament's eventual winner - which he lost narrowly. he then faced his nemesis bonsante in a fans favourite fight, and despite suffering  illegal moves, won a unanimous decision.

 post contender .

since the contender, he has criticized the show's management company for trying to force him to fight jesse brinkley at a severe weight disadvantage for a relatively small fight purse.  a natural welterweight, smith feels that he should be allowed to drop back down to a lower weight class and fight more rounds against opponents outside the contender in preparation for an eventual title shot or be allowed out of the show's management contract as contender contestants ahmed khaddour and jimmy lange, among others, have been.

ishe smith won his arbitration trial earlier this year and got out of the contender promotions to sign a contract with oscar de la hoya' golden boy promotions. ishe smith has been under bernard hopkins' guidance since he joined golden boy promotions. he had stated that he is very happy with the golden boy promotions. 

he was featured on a june 7th fight card promoted by bernard hopkins on espn friday night fight, where he dominated his opponent patrick thompson through 10 rounds to get a unanimous decision. he fought at 154 lbs, in the junior middleweight division, which is considered a division with a ton of opportunities for young prospects at this time. 

after the june 7th fight, ishe smith is in the talks to fight sechew powell, a major junior middleweight contender. ishe smith is currently scheduled to fight at least 2 more fights in 2006. sechew powell did not fight ishe smith but is scheduled to fight the more higher ranked fighter kasim 'the dream' ouma. powell fought ouma and was outclassed, losing a unanimous decision on the undercard of the quartey vs. forrest fight. ishe smith called out the world wide known boxer to be 'ducked' antonio margarito, this was a publicity stunt to find bigger fights such as the world pound 4 pound fighter floyd mayweather, who is considered a far greater fighter than smith. ishe smith moved to welterweight a division with the likes of floyd mayweather, ricky hatton and miguel cotto this will prove a test for ishe 'sugar shay' smith to see if he can bring boxing 'to a whole new level' as he had claimed.  

golden boy promotions .

after golden boy promotions signed numerous other fighters including many former and current champions, ishe smith had become idle because golden boy promotions are holding cards to feature more known names than ishe smith. smith was frustrated by this and made a statement saying that he is considering joining the ufc, because he is a desperate need of a fight.golden boy has not commented on the comments made by ishe smith yet.  

 future career .
ishe smith is scheduled to fight sechew powell in early feburary 2007.his future career may depend on the outcome of this fight as a profesional boxer.
external links.
personal website;
boxrec profile;







</doc>
<doc id="5070788" title="titanosuchus" nonfiltered="548" processed="538" dbindex="554">


titanosuchus ferox ("fierce titan crocodile") was a dinocephalian therapsid, not an actual crocodile, that lived in mid permian south africa. titanosuchus was related to jonkeria and moschops. these animals lived at the same place (south africa), at the same time (265 million years ago, middle permian).titanosuchus was a carnivore. titanosuchus might have eaten both jonkeria and moschops and other smaller vertebrates. it had sharp incisors and fang-like canines, perfect for biting prey, such as moschops. titanosuchus rivals that to titanophoneus, which is also a carnivore and a dinocephalian, but it lived only in russia.  titanosuchus should not be confused with eotitanosuchus. eotitanosuchus is only distantly related to titanosuchus, even though they were both therapsids. 







</doc>
<doc id="8978574" title="alex rodriguez (musician)" nonfiltered="549" processed="539" dbindex="555">

alex rodriguez is the drummer for post-hardcore band saosin. he is of cuban descent. rodriguez left open hand to join saosin in 2003. he was finishing work with them when he joined saosin, so beau burchell had pat mcgrath hired for the translating the name ep. rodriguez took over from there and the rest has been history. 

live setup.
alex uses the following kits, all shine.
brown gloss maple: 22"x20" bass, 12"x8" and 14"x12" toms, chrome hardware
smoke black acrylic: 24"x20" bass, 12"x8" and 14"x12" toms, black chrome hardware
snares:
14"x7 10 ply maple w/ diecast hoops, black glass wrap, chrome hardware
14x7 clear acrylic w/ diecast hoops, chrome hardware
14x6.5 black brass w/ triple flange hoops, all black chrome hardware.
zildjian cymbals.




</doc>
<doc id="4760770" title="royal stockholm philharmonic orchestra" nonfiltered="550" processed="540" dbindex="556">
the royal stockholm philharmonic orchestra (swedish: kungliga filharmonikerna or kungliga filharmoniska orkestern) was founded in 1902 as the stockholm concert society (konsertf\f6reningens orkester) until 1957 and the stockholm philharmonic orchestra (stockholms filharmoniska orkester) between 1957 and 1992 when it acquired its present name. the orchestra became a permanent ensemble in 1914.  since 1926 it has been based in the stockholm concert hall.

principal conductors.

sakari oramo scheduled to take over in 2008 ;
alan gilbert (2000 );
andrew davis and paavo j\e4rvi (1995 1998);
gennadi rozhdestvensky (1991 1995);
paavo berglund (1987 1990);
yuri ahronovitch (1982 1987);
gennadi rozhdestvensky (1974 1977);
antal dor\e1ti (1966 1974);
hans schmidt-isserstedt (1955 1964);
carl garaguly (1942 1953);
fritz busch (1937 1940);
v\e1clav talich (1926 1936);
georg schn\e9evoigt (1915 1924);

external links.
homepage;









</doc>
<doc id="167623" title="list of danish authors" nonfiltered="551" processed="541" dbindex="557">
notable danish authors.
hans christian andersen;
herman bang;
karen blixen (isak dinesen);
jens fink-jensen ;
peter h\f8eg;
johannes vilhelm jensen;
s\f8ren kierkegaard;
peter kj\e6rulff;
svend aage madsen;
martin andersen nex\f8;
villy s\f8rensen;












</doc>
<doc id="4697200" title="hezingen" nonfiltered="552" processed="542" dbindex="558">


hezingen () is a town in the dutch province of overijssel. it is a part of the municipality of tubbergen, and lies about 15 km north of oldenzaal.

the statistical area "hezingen", which also can include the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 200.

references.
 








</doc>
<doc id="4974344" title="simcha rotem" nonfiltered="553" processed="543" dbindex="559">
simcha rotem (1924-) also known as kazik, the name he used as a member of the jewish underground in warsaw, he served as the head courier of the jewish fighting organization (zob), which planned and executed the warsaw ghetto uprising against the nazis.

 before world war ii .

he was born szymon ratajzer in 1924 in warsaw, poland and was 15 years old when germany invaded poland in 1939.


 the second world war .
in 1942 he joined the zydowska organizacja bojowa (zob).  because of his non-jewish aryan looks and unaccented polish, rotem became particularly useful as a courier for the fighters of the warsaw ghetto and often conducted missions to rescue jews dressed as a member of elite polish units associated with the german waffen s.s..  he took part in the warsaw ghetto uprising.  when it became apparent that all was lost, he was sent via a secret passageway to the aryan side of warsaw to meet with zob commander yitzhak zuckerman to try to arrange an escape for the fighters.  the passageway was discovered by the nazis, however, and unable to return via that route, he and zuckerman were trapped on the aryan side while the fighting raged and the ghetto burned.  desperate to reach their comrades, rotem made several attempts to enter the ghetto through the sewers of warsaw before finally succeeding.  there he met one of the last surviving leaders of the ghetto revolt zivia lubetkin and he led her and her team of approximately 80 fighters through the sewers to the aryan side and then to the forests outside of the city.  he became the head courier for the zob and second in command to zuckerman.  throughout the rest of the war he continued his underground activities with the resistance, in particular helping to care for the several thousand jews who still remained in warsaw in hiding.  in august 1944, he took part in the polish warsaw uprising.

 post-war life .

immediately following the end of world war ii, rotem became a member of the "avengers", a special squad made up of members of the jewish resistance during the war who tracked down and executed known nazi war criminals in europe.  he took part in the organization of the beriha, an organization that helped european jews illegally immigrate to what was then called mandate palestine.  although his twelve-year sister was murdered in the warsaw ghetto uprising, his parents and another sister survived in hiding and, in 1947, he and the surviving members of his family immigrated to israel.  he now lives in jerusalem.


 bibliography .
rotem, simhah. memoirs of a warsaw ghetto fighter: the past within me. new haven: yale university press, 1994.







</doc>
<doc id="5097094" title="bassa (cameroon)" nonfiltered="554" processed="544" dbindex="560">
the bassa (also spelled basa or basaa) are an ethnic group in cameroon. these people, numbering approximately 230,000, are bantu. their language is the basaa language.






</doc>
<doc id="4817668" title="the genocidal healer" nonfiltered="555" processed="545" dbindex="561">
the genocidal healer is a 1992 science fiction novel by author james white and is part of the sector general series.






</doc>
<doc id="5455286" title="23rd street (ind eighth avenue line)" nonfiltered="556" processed="546" dbindex="562">

23rd street is a subway station on the ind eighth avenue line of the new york city subway. located at 23rd street and eighth avenue in the chelsea neighborhood of manhattan, it is served by the  train at all times and by the  at all times except late nights, when it is replaced by the .

this local station has four tracks and two side platforms. each platform has exits to 23rd, 24th, and 25th streets, with an open crossunder at 23rd street and a closed one at 25th. the station is unrenovated and thus has several closed fare booths.

just north of this station, a storage track begins between the two eighth avenue express tracks. this track runs north and stub-ends at the south end of the center platform at 34th street penn station.

bus connections.
;

external links.
;
station reporter   e train;






</doc>
<doc id="3097393" title="mount tiedemann" nonfiltered="557" processed="547" dbindex="563">


mount tiedemann is one of the principal summits of the pacific ranges subdivision of the coast mountains of british columbia.  it is located 3 km northeast of mount waddington in the waddington range massif between the homathko and klinaklini rivers.

the first ascent was in 1939 by s. hendricks, h. fuhrer, r. gibson, h. hall via the chaos glacier to the north arete.

 external link .
mount tiedemann in the canadian mountain encyclopedia;




</doc>
<doc id="8568296" title="saskatchewan highway 934" nonfiltered="558" processed="548" dbindex="564">


saskatchewan highway 934 is a highway in the canadian province of saskatchewan. it runs from saskatchewan highway 912 to a dead end. highway 934 is about 14 km (9 mi.) long.

see also.

 list of saskatchewan provincial highways;



</doc>
<doc id="2263418" title="dasc?lu" nonfiltered="559" processed="549" dbindex="565">
dasc lu is a commune in the centre of ilfov county, romania. its name is derived from a romanian obsolete word for "teacher".






</doc>
<doc id="1905676" title="london fields (novel)" nonfiltered="560" processed="550" dbindex="566">
london fields is a black comic novel by british writer martin amis, published in 1989.



regarded by amis's readership as possibly his strongest novel, the tone gradually shifts from high comedy, interspersed with deep personal introspections and occasional musings on astrophysics, to a dark sense of foreboding and, eventually, panic as the deadline or "horrorday"   the climactic scene alluded to on the very first page   approaches.  

amis explains the title of the novel in his preface, although somewhat obscurely. london fields is a park in hackney, north-east london, but the novel is set in west london, like most of amis' work.  the narrator, samson young, who is suffering from cancer, tells us he played in london fields as a boy, and wants to return there, but he never actually does. it is not clear whether his presence in london was originally based on a wish to revisit old haunts, but this seems likely.

the park in which young walks with various characters   nicola six, guy clinch and keith talent   is almost certainly not london fields, since hyde park would be more convenient, and he states that he "never will" go back to the park of the title.

it has been suggested that damon albarn of the band blur took inspiration from reading london fields when writing the lyrics to blur's third album parklife.


plot summary.


samson young, the narrator of the novel, is a failed non-fiction writer, slowly dying of cancer (probably leukemia).  on a visit to london he meets the anti-heroine, nicola six, in a pub, along with keith talent, a small-time crook and wannabe professional darts player, and guy clinch, a moneyed upper-class banker who is bored with life.  later, six leaves her diaries in a litter bin outside the flat where young is staying (it belongs to mark asprey, a wildly successful english writer, who is probably an oblique reference to amis himself).  the diaries tell young that six is plotting her own murder for the early hours of november 6th, her 36th birthday.  young, normally unable to write good fiction, realises he can simply document the progress towards the murder to create a plausible, saleable, story and enters into a strange relationship with six where he regularly interviews her and is updated on the "plot".

the novel proceeds on the basis that talent, the known criminal, will be the murderer, with clinch as the fall guy necessary to provoke him into killing (and, incidentally, unwittingly provide funds to help talent avoid loan sharks and further his darts career to ensure he appears in the sparrow masters final the day before the planned murder).  however, there is a genuinely shocking twist at the finale, which is not even the expected twist - amis cleverly hints at a false ending, in one of young's terrifying dreams, simply to confuse the reader.

the story is set against a backdrop of environmental and social degradation and the looming threat of nuclear war (referred to as "the crisis").  there is an element of sacrifice and salvation in that the crisis ends with the final death of two of the participants.  the characters are unusual but most are sympathetic in their own way - even talent, who has virtually no appealing features except his "fierce brand loyalties", a complete lack of colour prejudice when it comes to women, and an obsession with tv and darts.  young is a morally ambiguous character who redeems himself at the end.  the only truly malignant character is the unseen asprey, who manipulates the others from afar, either for amusement or in order to pass off young's story as his own - this is left in the balance.

what makes the work interesting is the way in which the author enables the characters to evolve into independent life forms, complete with feelings like fear and hope; fear of the "the crisis" and the hope to survive it.the crisis' is the term used to refer to the nuclear war that is haunting the world of "london fields" which is in turn the broad canvas on which the plot evolves. the characters, especially nicola six manage to develop the ability of "thinkability", which is the term used by amis himself in the introduction to 'einstein's monsters'. the work takes time to address the concerns shared by contemporary humanity.

 external links .
essays.
narrative and narrated homicide in martin amis's other people and london fields (brian finney);

reviews.
review by jason picone (2002);









</doc>
<doc id="2961838" title="oklaj" nonfiltered="561" processed="551" dbindex="567">
oklaj is a small town in the \a6ibenik-knin county of croatia. it is located in inland of the dalmatia adriatic coastline, about 15 km south of knin and 14 km northwest of drni\a8. it is situated between the southwest slopes of promina mountain and the southern bank of the krka river, it is 274 m (902 feet) above sea level, geographically located at . its favourable geographic position in the south-western part of dinaric regions, provides an excellent connection for traffic between central croatia inland and the adriatic sea.

oklaj is an administration centre of promina municipality. its municipality population is around 2000 (2001.), with 800 in the town itself and the rest in 13 surrounding villages. promina municipality includes these villages: citluk, razvodje, lukar, suknovci, matasi, puljani, mratovo, bogetici, ljubotic, marasovine, necven, podi and bobodol.

until the beginning of the domovinski rat (1991.), 2,574 residents lived in promina district (including oklaj,razvodje, mratovo, marase, puljane, ljubotic, citluk, bogatic, suknovci,bobodol, lukar): 85 per cent croatians and 14 per cent serbs.
members of serb (ir)regular units ( etnici) and irregular "sao krajina militia" or "martic's unit", along with the soldiers of the "ypa 9th corps" from knin occupied promina, and forcibly displaced cca 2,000 croatian civilians. the remaining population of croatian nationality was terrorized. members of the occupying self-proclaimed authorities placed explosive devices (mines, hand grenades...) at places where they expected the passage of croatian civilians (in front of houses and barns, in gardens, in hay-stacks...). croatian owned family houses were ransacked daily, croatian owned property looted. croatian male civilians were groundlessly taken to knin and imprisoned. after months of imprisonment, some of them were released, and then they were arrested again and returned to the knin prison. most of the croatian owned family houses were looted, and then blown up or burnt down. 

five catholic churches were set on fire and destroyed in promina, one church was devastated. 36 croatian civilians were killed in the period between september
1991 and december 1993.



</doc>
<doc id="5845978" title="john rundle" nonfiltered="562" processed="552" dbindex="568">

john rundle (1791   january 1864) was a british politician and businessman.

from 1835 to 1843, he was a member of parliament, representing tavistock in the house of commons. he was  one of the original directors and financiers of the south australia company, the company that was formed in london in 1834 to promote the settlement the colony that was to become south australia.

rundle arrived in south australia at port adelaide on 6 february 1840.

rundle street and subsequently rundle mall bear his name. of note is the historic beehive corner (rundle mall), built in 1895, was owned by him.

external links.
photograph of john rundle;
rundle mall;
boat passenger list of 1840 to south australia;








</doc>
<doc id="152277" title="jane addams" nonfiltered="563" processed="553" dbindex="569">

jane addams (september 6, 1860   may 21, 1935) won the nobel peace prize and was a founder of the u.s. settlement house movement.

born in cedarville, illinois, jane addams was the eighth of nine children born into a prosperous miller family. she was first cousin twice removed to charles addams, noted macabre cartoonist for the new yorker   

addams was educated in the united states and europe, graduating from the rockford female seminary (now rockford college) in rockford, illinois.  while in london, she was influenced by andrew mearn's essay, the bitter cry of outcast london, which highlighted slum conditions.  she made a second visit to europe when she was 27 years old, visiting toynbee hall, a settlement house in the east end of london.  settlement houses provided welfare for a neighborhood's poor and a center for social reform.

in 1889 she and ellen gates starr co-founded hull house in chicago, illinois, one of the first settlement houses in the united states. at its height, hull house was visited each week by around two thousand people. its facilities included a night school for adults; kindergarten classes; clubs for older children; a public kitchen; an art gallery; a coffeehouse; a gymnasium; a girls club; a swimming pool; a book bindery; a music school; a drama group; a library; and labor-related divisions.

hull house also served as a women's sociological institution. addams was a friend and colleague to the early members of the chicago school of sociology, influencing their thought through her work in applied sociology and, in 1893, co-authoring the hull-house maps and papers that came to define the interests and methodologies of the school. she worked with george h. mead on social reform issues including women's rights, ending child-labor, and the 1910 garment workers' strike in which she was a mediator. although academic sociologists of the time defined her work as "social work", addams did not consider herself a social worker. she combined the central concepts of symbolic interactionism with the theories of cultural feminism and pragmatism to form her sociological ideas (deegan, 1988).  she was also actively involved with pi gamma mu, the social science honor society, in the 1920s until her death because of its emphasis on social service and the humanization of the social science disciplines.  in 1998 the british columbia branch of the women's international league for peace and freedom commissioned canadian artist christian cardell corbet to create a bronze medallion of jane addams to celebrate her life and achievements. the medallion since has been collected by several important museums.

the jane addams peace association together with the women's international league for peace and freedom give the annual jane addams children's book awards to children's books that promote peace, equality, multiculturalism, and peaceful solutions.

publications.
 democracy and social ethics, new york: macmillan, 1902.
 children in american street trades, new york: national child labor committee, 1905.
 new ideals of peace, chautauqua, n.y.: chautauqua press, 1907.
 the wage-earning woman and the state, boston: boston equal suffrage association for good government, 1910s.
twenty years at hull house. by jane adams. new york: the macmillan company, 1912. copyright 1910.  on-line edition at the celebration of women writers.
 symposium: child labor on the stage, new york: national child labor committee, ?1911.

references.



other reference.
 deegan, mary. jane addams and the men of the chicago school, 1892-1918. new brunswick, nj: transaction, inc., 1988.
 knight, louise w. citizen: jane addams and the struggle for democracy. chicago: university of chicago press, 2005.

see also.
 florence kelley;
 flora dunlap;
 mary treglia;
 jane addams school for democracy;
 women's international league for peace and freedom;
 john dewey;
 community practice social work;
 hull house;
 stanton street settlement;


 external links .


 harvard university library open collections program. women working, 1870-1930. jane addams (1860-1935). a full-text searchable online database with complete access to publications written by jane addams.
  jane addams hull-house museum;
 review materials for studying jane addams;
 ;
 works by jane addams listed at the online books page;
 stanford encyclopedia of philosophy entry;
 the bitter cry of outcast london by rev. andrew mearns;


 jane addams on glbtq.com;































</doc>
<doc id="1437342" title="list of egg dishes" nonfiltered="564" processed="554" dbindex="570">
the following is a list of egg dishes:

plain egg dishes.
coddled egg;
fried egg;
boiled egg;
omelette;
poached egg;
scrambled eggs;
shirred egg;

savory egg dishes.
bacon and eggs (various);
baked egg cheese (finland);
balut (southeast asia);
brik (tunisia);
chawanmushi (japan);
chinese steamed eggs;
chupe (peruvian soup - various);
cilbir (turkey);
dalgyal changjorim (salted egg, korea);
deviled eggs (many);
egg jum\e3ri (romania);
egg bhurji (indian - various);
egg biryani (various - india);
egg cutlets (various);
egg casserole (u.s.);
egg curry (many - india et al.);
egg foo yung (united states et al.);
egg in the basket (many);
egg khesh (india);
egg roast (india);
sambal telur (southeast asia);
egg sauce (uk);
egg-drop soup (various);
egg-fried rice (various);
egg pilaf (various);
egg salad (various);
egg thread nets (to hold other foods - thailand);
eggs and brains (u.s.);
eggs benedict;
eggs benedict xvi;
eggs connaught;
eggs do pyaza (india);
eggs moghlai (india, uk);
eggs thoren (india);
ervilhas com ovos (portugal);
flaeskeaeggekage (bacon and egg cake, denmark);
fried egg sandwich;
frittata (italian et al.);
fu yung egg slices (china);
gari foto (west africa);
geran changsik (korea);
hoya eggsa (popular with students of georgetown university);
huevos motule\f1os (mexico);
huevos rancheros (latin america);
indian railways omelet sandwich;
jaja faszerowane (poland);
kai doon (thailand);
kai kwan (thailand);
kai look koei (thailand);
kai tian (thailand);
kai tord gup moo (thailand);
kai yat sai (thailand);
kedgeree (uk, adapted from indian);
kluskiz z zoltek (poland);
kookoo (iranian - various);
matzo brie (jewish);
menemen (turkey);
omelette (many);
oto (west africa);
perico (venezuela);
pickled egg;
bi pong moun (cambodia);
quiche (many);
scalloped eggs;
scotch eggs (eponymous with scotland, but served throughout the uk);
smoked egg (china);
souffl\e9 (french et al.);
tajin (tunisian - various);
tamago dashimaki (rolled omelet with nori, japan);
tamago kake gohan (japanese);
tamagoyaki (rolled omelet, japan);
tea-leaf egg (china);
thousand-year egg (china);
tortilla (spain);
'ujja bi'l-hrus (tunisia);
woodcock (uk);

sweet egg dishes.
custard pie;
datemaki (japan);
divinity (u.s.);
doce de ovos (portugal);
egg custard ;
egg tart ;
egg halwa;
fios de ovos (portugal);
flan;
foi tong (thailand);
french toast;
huevos reales (spain, latin america);
kanom mo kaeng (thailand);
lampreia de ovos (portugal);
meringue;
omelette surprise;
ovos moles (portugal);
ovos moles de papaia (mozambique);
\bcufs \e0 la neige;
sweet egg bhurji (india);
sweet omelette (many);
 tamagoyaki (japanese);
trouxas de ovos (portugal);
yemas de san leandro (spain);




</doc>
<doc id="9108954" title="bundesstra\dfe 55" nonfiltered="565" processed="555" dbindex="571">


the bundesstra\dfe 55 is a bundesstra\dfe road in germany, connecting j\fclich with rheda-wiedenbr\fcck via cologne, gummersbach, olpe and meschede.




</doc>
<doc id="3662258" title="oe (cyrillic)" nonfiltered="566" processed="556" dbindex="572">


the cyrillic letter oe or barred o ( ,  ) is an o with a horizontal line through it.  despite having a similar shape, it is neither related to the letter theta ( , )  of the greek alphabet nor the archaic cyrillic letter fita ().  it is used in bashkir, kalmyk, kazakh, kyrgyz, mongolian, buryat and yakut, where it represents the open-mid front rounded vowel .  in kazakh, this letter may also represent .

 see also .
o;












</doc>
<doc id="1460506" title="psiloc" nonfiltered="567" processed="557" dbindex="573">
 
psiloc is a software provider for smartphones. its solutions are designed for single users, enterprises, gsm network operators and handset manufacturers. the company was founded in 1997.

thanks to software development for psion palmtops, psiloc was ready to create innovative solutions for a new market of the smartphones immediately after first launch of the nokia communicators. from then psiloc became one of the most known brands of smartphone software. the best selling application has been downloaded more then 2 500.000 times. over 250 psiloc products were successfully installed at customers' devices.

psiloc has developed unique set of tools for protecting, licensing and distributing symbian-based applications called psiloc drm common solutions. the company offers it to other developers but also to gsm operators, content providers, mobile phone producers and application distributors.
psiloc is symbian platinum partner and member of forum nokia pro.
the company is headquartered in warsaw, poland.

external links.
company website;






</doc>
<doc id="4264418" title="emmelshausen" nonfiltered="568" processed="558" dbindex="574">
emmelshausen is a village and a municipality in the rhein-hunsr\fcck district, in rhineland-palatinate, germany. it is situated in the hunsr\fcck, approx. 25 km south of koblenz.

emmelshausen is also the seat of the verbandsgemeinde ("collective municipality") emmelshausen, which consists of the following ortsgemeinden ("local municipalities"):












</doc>
<doc id="7616391" title="polytrauma" nonfiltered="569" processed="559" dbindex="575">


polytrauma is used to describe the condition of a person who has been subjected to multiple traumatic injuries, such as a serious head injury and a serious burn. the term "polytrauma" has become common among military doctors in describing the seriously injured soldiers returning from iraq and afganistan.



</doc>
<doc id="2010351" title="cape selatan" nonfiltered="571" processed="560" dbindex="577">


cape selatan ("south cape") is the southernmost point on the island of kalimantan, at . once this whole region was a swamp, but the land area north of the cape is being cleared for rubber plantations and grazing for cattle. the sediment along the coast is from the barito river to the north and from small streams near the tip of the cape where land has been cleared. the forested hills of the southern besar range are visible along the southeastern coast midway between the upper center and upper right of the image.





</doc>
<doc id="31744" title="ungulate" nonfiltered="572" processed="561" dbindex="578">


ungulates (meaning roughly "hoofed" or "hoofed animal") are several groups of mammals most of which use the tips of their toes, usually hoofed, to sustain their whole bodyweight whilst moving. they make up several orders of mammals, of which six to eight survive.  there is some dispute as to whether ungulate should be treated as an actual cladistic (evolution-based) group, or merely a phenetic group (similar, but not necessarily related), in light of the fact that all ungulates do not appear to be as closely related as once believed (see below).  ungulata was formerly considered an order which has been split into perissodactyla and artiodactyla.  members of these two orders are called the 'true ungulates' to distinguish them from 'subungulates' (paenungulata) which include members from the proboscidea, sirenia, and hyracoidea orders. 

relationships.
the perissodactyla and artiodactyla make up the largest portion of ungulates, and also comprise the majority of large land mammals.  these two groups first appeared during the late paleocene and early eocene (about 54 million years ago), rapidly spreading to a wide variety of species on numerous continents, and have developed in parallel since that time.

although whales and dolphins (cetacea) do not possess most of the typical morphological characteristics of ungulates, recent discoveries have suggested that they are likely descended from early artiodactyls, and thus are directly related to other even-toed ungulates such as cattle and hippopotami.  as a result of these discoveries, a new order of cetartiodactyla has also been proposed to include the members of artiodactyla and cetacea, to reflect their common ancestry; however, strictly speaking, this is not necessary, as it is possible simply to recognize cetacea as a subgroup of artiodactyla.

the hyracoidea, sirenia and proboscidea are the paenungulata. the tubulidentata are also thought to be ungulates. the macroscelidea have been interpreted as ungulates, and there is dental as well as genetic evidence supporting this interpretation. the macroscelidea and tubulidentata have recently been united with the paenungulata in the pseudungulata. genetic studies indicate that these animals are not closely related to the artiodactyls and perissodactyls. instead, the closest relatives of pseudungulates are the afrosoricida; the pseudungulata and afrosoricida make up the afrotheria.

ungulate groups represented in the fossil record include the embrithopods, demostylians, mesonychids, "condylarths" and various south american and paleogene lineages.

in addition to hooves, most ungulates have developed reduced canine teeth, bunodont molars (molars with low, rounded cusps), and an astragalus (one of the ankle bones at the end of the lower leg) with a short, robust head.

another characteristic of most ungulates is the fusion of the front forelimbs.  in ungulates, the radius and ulna are fused along the length of the forelimb.  this is a trait of most modern ungulates, as early ungulates, such as the arctocyonids did not share this unique skeletal structure.  the fusion of the radius and ulna prevents an ungulate from rotating its forelimb. since this skeletal structure has no specific function in ungulates, it is considered to be a homologous characteristic that ungulates share with other mammals. this trait would have been passed down from a common ancestor. 

ungulates diversified rapidly in the eocene, but are thought to date back as far as the late cretaceous. most ungulates are herbivores, but a few are omnivores or even predators: the mesonychia and whales.

recent developments.
that these groups of mammals are most closely related to each other has occasionally been questioned on anatomical and genetic grounds. molecular phylogenetic studies have suggested that perissodactyla and cetartiodactyla are closest to carnivora and pholidota rather than to the pseudungulata.

the pseudungulata are by some scientists united with the afrosoricida in the cohort or super-order afrotheria based on molecular and dna analysis. this means they are not related to other ungulates. 

the extinct south-american ungulates, evolved when the continent was in isolation, are united in the super-order meridiungulata. they are by some thought to be unrelated to the other ungulates. instead, they are united with the afrotheria and the xenarthra in the supercohort atlantogenata.

the position of other extinct ungulates is unclear. embrithopods, desmostylians and other related groups are seen as relatives of the paenungulata, thus members of the afrotheria. the condylarths are, as a result, no longer seen as the ancestors of all ungulates. instead, it is now believed the condylarths are members of the cohort laurasiatheria. so it seems that, of all the ungulates, only the perissiodacyla and artiodactyla descended from the condylarths assuming that the animals lumped by scientists into condylarthra over the years are even related to one another.

as a result of all this, it seems the typical ungulate morphology originated three times independently: in the meridiungulata, the afrotheria and the "true" ungulates in the laurasiatheria. this is a great example of convergent evolution. this is met with scepticism by some scientists, who say there is no morphological evidence to split the ungulates up into so many unrelated clades.

see also.
 even-toed ungulate;
 odd-toed ungulate;

references.

















</doc>
<doc id="5245539" title="the prince of egypt (nashville)" nonfiltered="573" processed="562" dbindex="579">


the prince of egypt (nashville) was one of three albums released along with dreamworks's 1998 movie, the prince of egypt. this country-themed album featured several prominent nashville acts, and was the most critically acclaimed of all three albums.

it peaked at #6 and #8 on billboard magazine's top contemporary christian and top country album charts respectively.

track listing.
"freedom", performed by wynonna judd   4:40;
"make it through", performed by randy travis and linda davis   3:56;
"i give you to his heart", performed by alison krauss   4:30;
"heartbeat of hope", performed by steven curtis chapman   4:44;
"milk and honey", performed by pam tillis   4:00;
"once in a while", performed by vince gill   3:36;
"walk in glory", performed by mindy mccready   4:07;
"somewhere down the road", performed by faith hill   5:38;
"please be the one", performed by reba mcentire   3:09;
"slavery, deliverance and faith", performed by clint black   4:28;
"godspeed", performed by beth nielsen chapman   3:16;
"the voice", performed by alabama   4:21;
"you are my light", performed by gary chapman   4:48;
"the moving of the mountain", performed by mac mcanally   3:44;
"i will be there for you", performed by jessica andrews   3:19;
"i can't be a slave", performed by toby keith   3:21;
"could it be me", performed by charlie daniels   5:08;

the first and only single from the album, "freedom", peaked at #68 on billboard's hot country singles and tracks chart.

see also.
the prince of egypt (soundtracks);




</doc>
<doc id="6051270" title="eugene houdry" nonfiltered="574" processed="563" dbindex="580">
eugene houdry (1892-1962) was a french mechanical engineer who invented catalytic cracking of petroleum feed stocks.  he originally focused on using lignite (brown coal) as a feedstock, but switched to using heavy liquid tars.  the first houdry unit was built at sun oil's marcus hook, pa oil refinery in 1937.  many more units were built by the 1940s and were instrumental for us wartime aviation gasoline production.

the process was further developed by two mit engineers, warren k. lewis and edwin r. gilliland, under contract to standard oil of new jersey, now exxonmobil.  they developed the process into fluid catalytic cracking, which solved the problem of having to shut down the process to burn the coke off the catalyst by using a continuously circulating fluidized catalyst made of a fine zeolite powder .  this process is still in widespread use, especially in the us where gasoline is in high demand.

houdry later became interested in automotive catalysts, and the catalytic converter was one of approximately 100 patents that he received.  but nothing came of it until the 1970s because the tetraethyl lead that was still in use in the 1950s and 1960s poisoned the catalyst.

external links.
bio;
another bio;




</doc>
<doc id="2804076" title="possession (video game)" nonfiltered="575" processed="564" dbindex="581">


possession is an upcoming video game for the seventh generation video game consoles. in the game the player plays as a man turned into an intelligent zombie via exposure to experimental chemicals from a laboratory into which he had broken. retaining his intelligence, he sets out on a mission to destroy the prometheus corporation which made the chemicals. to do this, he must first amass a vast number of zombie warriors to take control of the futuristic restoration city, headquarters of the shadowy prometheus corporation.

gameplay.
in the game the player controls the intelligent zombie, known as "the enslaver", who in turn commands the other undead. the enslaver begins the game with only three zombie minions - his three infected comrades from the raid on the laboratory - who he can give simple orders to, such as "attack", "defend" and "infect". the latter command causes the zombies to seek out the nearest uninfected humans and kill them. immediately after, the victims will get back up as mindlessly loyal undead servants of the enslaver. the more zombies under the enslaver's command, the more humans can be killed and infected, and the more of restoration city can be overtaken. at its current full extent, the zombie army can reach numbers of up to 300 fully controllable, upgradeable (see unit types below) creatures, which can be divided into multiple squads and assault divisions and commanded to launch complex, multi-directional assaults on enemy positions, just like real military forces. the entirely freeform gameplay setup is to be based around both a tactical command system and brutal close combat - the enslaver is a fearsome warrior with massively upgradeable strength and abilities, and can engage in wholesale frontline slaughter on his own, like kratos in god of war - for instance, at his first level of upgrade, he can break limbs and snap spines, but when fully upgraded he can tear people in half at the waist and hurl heavy vehicles like missiles. also, he can "hijack" members of his zombie army, allowing him to control an individual shambler, runner, shredder, bloater or monster in first-person combat. possession's combination of exceptionally advanced ai, top-class graphics, massive interactive environments and thousands of intelligent, reactive characters means that its developer, volatile, will only be able to release it on the more powerfulps3 and xbox 360 consoles and windows pcs.

unit types.
 shambler: this is the classic basic-level zombie: as the name suggests, it moves in a shambling fashion, has a slow to medium-fast walking pace and has comparatively low intelligence, but great physical strength and endurance. shamblers are the basic combat unit in possession, and are the default state into which infected enemies turn into when they join the enslaver's horde. tactically, they are best used in massed assaults, as they are highly expendable, utterly unrelenting in their attacks, and deadly in close combat. in keeping with the classic zombie stereotypes of resident evil, dawn of the dead and other such zombie franchises, shamblers can only be killed by headshots.

 runner: runners are the second level of zombie upgrade in possession, and are fast, agile creatures, like the rage virus infectees in 28 days later. they can easily bound over obstacles, leap over cracks and craters in the ground, and run down fleeing humans. they have relatively low strength and can be brought down by general damage, but their high mobility makes them invaluable when trying to bypass heavily defended positions or units of powerful enemy troops. they are extremely vicious in combat, brutally charging down and tearing apart their targets. tactically, they are most useful as fast backup units and scouts accompanying the main force.

 bloater: this third-level zombie unit has entered a very advanced state of decomposition, causing it to bloat horrifically with poisonous gas. its primary method of attack is to explode, spreading its gases outwards and instantly killing and infecting all enemies in the surrounding area. basically a sort of close-range living artillery unit, these are best fielded in small groups, interspersed amongst the bulkier squads of the main zombie horde.

 shredder: this fourth-level zombie type has been radically reorganized into a killing machine, its flesh stripped away to reveal a body composed almost entirely of powerful sinuous muscle. its elongated, saw-toothed skull resembles a deadly beast of prey, like a lion or leopard, far more than it does a human. able to climb any surface and vault any obstacle, shredders are powerful, resilient, stealthy beasts designed for stalking, pack hunting and brutal, blood-spattering slaughter. best used as scouts and infiltrators, they are also, of course, devastating in combat.

 monster: the monster is a massive fifth-level zombie upgrade, composed of multiple individual zombies fused together. the component zombies combine their skills, intelligences and body parts to form a one-ton, 10-to-15-ft-tall walking tank. monsters have massive, powerful bodies covered in thick layers of tough muscle and supported by almost unbreakable skeletons, enabling them to shrug off damage that would decimate entire squads of lesser creatures. naturally, monsters are best used as front-line attack units - their incredible strength and deadly razor-sharp jaws and talons make them utterly devastating in combat. the only disadvantage is that monsters cannot spread the zombifying infection.

enemies & ai.
possession will use next-generation hardware to create extremely complex ai for both the zombies and their human enemies. the power of the ps3 and xbox 360 will allow restoration city to be populated by thousands upon thousands of unique, perceptive ai characters, who will react in different ways to changing situations, depending on the character type, the particular character in question, and the situation at hand.

civilians: the game's setting of restoration city is a huge metropolis populated by millions of ordinary citizens. these civilians therefore will make up the majority of the people which the enslaver and his armies encounter on their rampage through the streets. weak and easy to kill, civilians are good for swelling the zombie horde. the thousands of different civilian characters all react in certain ways to the enslaver's path of destruction. they generally flock together into groups, with the strongest civilians taking the lead, and try to find their way to designated safe points (police stations, hospitals, army bases etc.). when two such groups meet, they join together into a single large gaggle of civilians, with the stronger of the two group leaders becoming the "shepherd". some civilians may even try to fight back.

police: restoration city's police force is its first line of defence against the zombie horde. smarter, stronger and better organized than civilians, police officers will use basic tactics to assault the zombie forces, forming squads and manning barricades and fortifications. although still relatively easy to kill and infect in close combat, their massed handguns, shotguns and close-quarters nightsticks are definite threats to the zombie forces.

riot police: a specialized branch of the restoration city police, these stronger, more heavily-armoured cops use the same basic tactics and attack patterns as their weaker counterparts, but are equipped with heavier weapons and protective riot shields, allowing them to withstand more powerful zombie assaults. when backed up by other police units and their specially adapted armoured vehicles, riot police squads can form a formidable defensive bastion against the enslaver and his zombies.

swat: when the cops can't handle a problem, they call in the elite special weapons and tactics division. stronger than cops, well-armoured and equipped with powerful assault rifles and handguns, swat officers use more advanced team tactics and pose a genuine threat to the enslaver's zombies, especially when defending fortified obstacles. however, massed forces of shamblers and runners should be sufficient to defeat most swat assault teams.

survivalists: these are basically ordinary civilians with a particularly strong survival instinct. they are largely ex-military doomsayers who have been waiting for a disaster like this sudden zombie apocalypse to crack out the m-16s and fight for their freedom. well-armed, strong and tactically adept, they pose around the same threat to the zombie hordes as swat and police forces, and will happily defend barricades or set up defensive posts to slow the enslaver's advance.

national guard: a step up from swat but not quite at the same level as the proper us army forces, these tough, well-trained troops use a mixture of improved military tactics and more powerful weapons (heavy machine guns, sniper rifles, grenades and light artillery), backed up by vehicles and fortifications. when well armed and supported, they are hard to defeat in both attack and defence, and can hold out for some time against even very large numbers of zombies. ;

us army: standard us military forces - heavily-armed assault troopers, snipers, scouts and heavy weapons teams. a combination of strength, intelligence, powerful weaponry and advanced tactics make these humans extremely dangerous to the zombies. soldiers will set up and defend barricades and fortifications, bring in reinforcements via armoured vehicle columns, and fight bravely against even overwhelming zombie forces. army vehicle back-up can include tanks, armoured cars, air support, helicopter gunships and fast attack vehicles.

black ops: the biggest threat to the enslaver and his minions, these are the cr\e8me de la cr\e8me of the enemy forces. extremely strong and intelligent, tactically advanced and armed with everything from assault rifles, grenades and sniper gear to tripod machine guns, flamethrowers and missile launchers, black ops troopers also use powerful military vehicles extensively for both transport and combat. deadly in both attack and defence, black ops forces use a combination of co-ordinated tactics and overwhelming firepower to beat back even the largest zombie attacks.

the greater the death and destruction caused by the enslaver and the larger his army becomes, the higher his threat designation will become. this will not only lead to greater levels of enemy response (as in the grand theft auto series) but will also lead to gradual improvements in enemy tactics, strength, weapons and support. in order to defeat the more powerful enemy forces, the enslaver and his zombies will have to find various different ways to cripple the humans. depending on the situation, enemy forces have varying morale levels: when totally confident, they will fight with increased strength and determination, co-ordinating powerful attacks and helping each other out. but, as the zombies cripple the humans' lifelines - sabotaging vehicles, taking over bases, destroying supply depots - enemy morale will start to drop. soldiers' gunfire will become less accurate, drivers will sometimes crash their vehicles, and some troopers may even flee the battle altogether.

online multiplayer.
possession is expected to feature various online multiplayer modes, one of which is supposed to pit players (as humans in a first person view) with an extensive arsenal of weapons against a player controlling a vast zombie horde. other modes are expected to include massive confrontations between several independently controlled zombie armies, siege battles where a single army must defend a fortified strongpoint against multiple co-ordinated attack forces, and maybe a zombie vs. zombie deathmatch battle, where dozens of individual zombies fight it out across the city.

cancellation.

while not officially cancelled, the game has received no updates in nearly a year. in response to several questions about possession, blitz/volatile has sent out the same message to any person who requested the status of the game.


"hi there, thanks for your interest in possession. unfortunately we still haven't managed to secure a publisher to take on the project. we haven't given up on possession completely, we want to see it made as much as you do. we are pursuing other games at the moment though. best regards, pr dept, volatile games"


the nature of the email and its content, especially the "pursuing other games" comment seem to suggest that the game will not be completed.

external links.
 possession official site;
 ign: ps3 x360 windows;
 wired-gamers interviews developer;







</doc>
<doc id="66850" title="backstreet boys" nonfiltered="576" processed="565" dbindex="582">
 

 
the backstreet boys are a grammy-nominated male vocal pop group that enjoyed enormous success in the mid-late 1990s and 2000s.  they have charted 12 u.s top 40 hits on the billboard hot 100, 16 u.k. top 10 hits and have won numerous awards, making them the highest selling boyband of all-time. since returning to the music scene in 2005, their sound changed drastically, incorporating only live instruments (some of which they play themselves) and a rock edge. the now four-member group consists of nick carter, howie dorough, brian littrell, and a.j. mclean; original member kevin richardson left the group on june 23, 2006.

 history .
beginnings and international successes: 1992 1996.

lou pearlman, an aviation entrepreneur based in florida, was inspired by the success of the new kids on the block in the 1980s to create his own clean-cut band. after a series of auditions in 1992 and 1993, he recruited nick carter (at 12, the band's youngest member), howie dorough, 19, alexander james mclean, 14 and following the departure of two members - sam licata (later performing as phoenix stone) and charles edwards - kevin richardson came aboard in march 1993, who was 21. the group took its final shape on april 19, 1993, when brian littrell, cousin of richardson, joined the group after a phone audition. their first concert, on may 8, 1993, was performed for 3,000 teenagers at seaworld in orlando, florida. pearlman later booked them at grade-school assemblies and shopping malls, and assigned management duties to johnny wright, who had worked with new kids on the block.

after a possible mercury records deal failed, the band was spotted in cleveland, ohio by jive records, an independent label best known for its hip-hop and pop acts, in february 1994. by june, they were recording their first single; an urban pop song by writer/producer denniz pop called "we've got it goin' on". the single struggled in the us and reached only #69 on the billboard charts; but it sold well in europe, later earning the band their first gold record in germany. in the summer of 1996, the band's first self-titled album was released in europe and canada, going gold within weeks in europe.2 jive and pearlman kept the band busy overseas for the next two years, sometimes putting on tours for five straight months.

european popularity grew, and the backstreet boys kicked off 1996 being voted the no.1 international group by tv viewers in germany - "i'll never break your heart" went gold there and hit no.1 in austria. the group earned their first platinum record in germany and toured asia and canada.

breakthrough in the united states: 1997-1999.
by 1997, pop music was returning to the forefront in united states, with the likes of the spice girls. jive and pearlman decided to bring the boys back to their home country after 8.5 million discs had been sold worldwide. they began recording their second album, backstreet's back, releasing "quit playing games with my heart" in august, coinciding with the release of their second international album, the band released a self-titled album in the us which collected songs from both international albums. 
they hit big on the u.s. charts with both releases, debuting at #1 in germany, norway, switzerland, finland and austria, and sold over 24 million copies worldwide (14 million copies in the u.s.) in december 1997, the band embarked on a 60-city, 20-country tour.

in 1997, littrell (soon joined by mclean, richardson and dorough) brought a lawsuit against lou pearlman, in which they claimed that pearlman had hidden and misused money earned by the band. the case was settled in 1998.

in 1998, littrell underwent open heart surgery in the middle of their sold-out us 39-city tour, at the insistence of his then girlfriend (and now wife) leighanne wallace; he had twice postponed the surgery in the past. he had been struggling with a heart murmur since he was born, almost dying at the age of 4 due to a bacterial infection. littrell needed about 8 weeks to recover from the surgery. shortly after, the backstreet boys cancelled an appearance in minnesota after learning that howie dorough's sister had died of lupus. in october 1998, the band received the keys to the city from the mayor of orlando in honor of the tornado relief concert the group headlined in march.

on february 17, 1999, the boys received their first diamond award from the riaa for shipment of 10 million copies of their self-titled album. at that time, they had hired a new manager team called "the firm", famous for managing bands including limp bizkit and korn. along with their new management team, the backstreet boys sued pearlman several more times, until he renegotiated the settlement on terms more favorable to the band. executives of the firm stated that the backstreet boys had bought out pearlman's stake in the band, but he denied this.

millennium: the follow-up album 1999-2000.

on may 18, 1999, the backstreet boys released the album millennium, which sold over 1.13 million units in its first week, setting, at the time, a record for first week sales, until april 2000, when 'n sync's sophomore album, no strings attached sold 2.4 million units in its first week. the album also recorded the most sales for an album's second and third weeks. rolling stone reports that sales might have been bigger if some stores had not run out of cds. the album dominated the worldwide charts, landing at the #1 spot in 25 nations. it was certified 11 times platinum on december 22, 1999, and went on to sell over 34 million copies worldwide. the first single "i want it that way" was a significant hit, reaching the #1 spot in over 18 countries. in addition to receiving gold and platinum awards in 45 countries, the band's sophomore album was nominated for 5 grammy award's including album of the year. in august, the backstreet boys sold out a 39-city tour in less than a day, selling over 765,000 tickets in a matter of hours, prompting additional shows in many markets and shattering a number of box-office records selling out all 53 concert dates of their into the millennium tour which kicked off in september. the tour drew over 2 million fans, breaking the record for largest indoor audience.

impressed by the success of the backstreet boys, sony bmg, which already owned 20 percent of jive's parent company, purchased a remainder for $3 billion, the most ever paid for an independent record company. in the meantime, the firm negotiated tens of millions of dollars in advance payments for recordings and performances from jive and the concert promoter clear channel. also by the end of 1999, the backstreet boys faced new problems declaring their current jive contract null and void, soon striking one of the largest record deals ever valued at $60 million with jive.

in 2000, the backstreet boys graced the pages of the new millennium's first issue of rolling stone magazine. burger king made a deal with the boys for tour sponsorship, videos, and cds with unreleased live tracks that were available for sale at burger king restaurants in august and september. in february, littrell and richardson confirmed their engagements to their fianc\e9es.

black & blue: 2000-2001.

in november 2000, the group released a new album, black & blue, with the idea of the title of the album coming from brian as the boys were in los angeles for a photoshoot when they were all dressed in black and standing in front of a blue background when out of the blue, brian suggested the album be called black & blue. to promote the release of black & blue, the boys traveled around the world in 100 hours to sweden, japan, australia, south africa, brazil, and the us; 55 of the hours were spent traveling and 45 were spent making public appearances. the album debuted with 1.6 million units sold in the first week in america, making the band the first ever artist to have two albums sell a million or more copies in the first week. in november 2000, black & blue had sold more than five million copies worldwide in its initial week, setting a new first-week record in international sales. globally, black & blue   whose 13-song selection features six songs co-written by members of the group, including two written by all five backstreet boys   achieved platinum status in over 30 countries and gold certification in 10 regions around the world during its first week of release. in the first week of release, black & blue's first single "shape of my heart" was played on 170 out of 171 of the top 40 stations in the u.s. meanwhile overseas, the song immediately jumped into the top five in sweden (#1), norway (#1), canada (#1), germany (#2), switzerland (#4), austria (#5) and holland (#5). towards the end of 2000, mclean first started using cocaine while shooting for the video "the call". the album's second single "the call" made the top 10 in the uk and the third single "more than that" made the top 20.

in 2001, the backstreet boys kicked off the 1st leg of their "2001 black & blue world tour", in which they were to perform on five continents within the span of 100 hours. the full tour earned us $350 million in ticket sales, placing the tour among the highest-grossing ever, though the tour also had extremely expensive production costs ("the largest concert set ever constructed," according to the president of zomba music group). the tour was featured on a cbs tv special, the backstreet boys: larger than life. to coincide with the special, tv guide issued six different covers of the boys: five individual shots and one group photo.

the second leg of black & blue summer tour was put on hold when it was reported that a.j. mclean had checked himself into rehab to battle drinking, drug addiction, and depression, after richardson had held an intervention for him at a hotel in boston. the tour was postponed until september. another tragedy struck when the september 11, 2001 attacks occurred, killing a backstreet boys crew member, daniel lee, who had been using time off in the tour schedule to travel from boston to los angeles to be with his pregnant wife. the death caused the cancellation of the band's plans for overseas tours. despite the tragedy in new york that day, the backsteet boys went ahead with a planned concert that night in toronto, where they performed to less than 5000 fans, and angered many in a public struggling to cope with the enormity of what had happened.

greatest hits: 2001-2002.

in october 2001, the boys released the hits: chapter one, a disc of their greatest hits. the band members say they resisted the album, feeling that it was too early in their careers for a "greatest hits" collection, and that it would ruin their long held plan to mark the group's 10th anniversary in 2003 with such a release. the record sold nearly 9 million copies worldwide, and yielded an international top 10 hit "drowning". the boys performed at the united we stand concert in washington, d.c. as well as the concert for new york city (two benefit concerts for the victims of september 11) and were a part of the all star tribute benefit single "what's going on" (with proceeds going to aids and 9/11 charities). by the end of 2001 and into 2002, it became clear that the backstreet boys were on an extended break with no new recordings or releases.

during their break: 2002-2004.
in 2002, the band expressed a strong desire to leave their management company, the firm. not surprisingly, the company did not put up much resistance. however, carter chose to remain with the firm for them to manage his solo career. it became apparent that this was reason for their lack of resistance to the backstreet boys moving on and this unexpected move forced the band to take a break. starved for a blockbuster album release, jive, according to industry observers, had no choice but to bank on releasing carter's solo album by the end of the year, ahead of the next backstreet boys' album, which was due in early 2003. 

in 2002, nick carter's solo album "now or never" was released. the album peaked at #17 on the billboard 200 and was certified gold.

the relationship with jive got even worse when the backstreet boys filed a $75-100 million lawsuit against zomba music group (jive s parent company) claiming breach of contract. the band's lawyer stated that zmg used the backstreet boys' trademark to shuttle traffic to other web sites and for a band this big, which was supposed to receive royalties from the record label, were not getting any personal attention it needed. according to the suit, in november 1999, the backstreet boys revised their 1994 contract and committed to releasing two further albums for zomba. in exchange for delivering them on time as part of a predetermined schedule, the group would receive multiple non-returnable payments that would serve as advances against future royalties. 

during their break, kevin starred on broadway's "chicago", nick released his solo album, also brian, howie and aj all worked on their solo records. in december 2003, mclean appeared on the oprah winfrey show where he talked for the first time in public about his addiction to alcohol and drugs, and his struggles rising to fame. the rest of the band surprised him by arriving in person to give him support, marking the first time the backstreet boys had appeared together in public in almost two years. the band began to reform and reconcile their differences to start recording a comeback album.

in 2004, the backstreet boys started performing together to promote their return to the music scene. in september they kicked-off a small asian tour, visiting beijing, shanghai, tokyo, as well as manila. then, based on the success of this tour, they announced a mexican tour, visiting mexico city and monterrey, performing all new material. renewed interest grew with the announcement of airing an hour long televised documentary of the backstreet boys on vh1's behind the music.

comeback: never gone 2005-2006.

after a three-year hiatus, their new hit single, "incomplete", was released to radio stations on march 28, 2005 and quickly became the #1 most requested song in top markets in both u.s. and overseas. the song was a change from their previous albums, switching to more of an adult contemporary style similar to the music of coldplay rather than the traditional teen-pop that had previously dominated the charts. the drastic style change drew negative criticism from magazines such as rolling stone (who gave the album only 1 star) and many long time fans, who felt they should have stayed true to their trademark pop sound.

on june 14, 2005, the backstreet boys released their comeback album never gone, which they spent more than a year recording. the album debuted at #3 on the u.s. chart with substantial first week sales of 291,000 copies, including #1 debuts in japan, pakistan,germany, india, chile, brazil, australia, and korea. in that year brian littrell scored a #1 hit on the us christian charts with the single "in christ alone". the backstreet boys began the first leg of their never gone tour in july in west palm beach, florida.

never gone was certified platinum in the us and four singles were released from the album. their first single "incomplete", the second single was "just want you to know", the third singles were: "crawling back to you" for the us and "i still..." (international). the album has gone to sell over 2.1 million copies worldwide.

backstreet boys' second single "just want you to know" hit the top 10 in the uk, but was widely considered a flop in america, it was the group's worst performing u.s. single only managing to peak at #70 on the billboard hot 100 chart. the third international single "i still" debuted at #1 on the japan international singles chart with 2,182 copies sold, making the first ever international single to enter at #1 on the chart in japanese history. the third us single, "crawling back to you" peaked at #30 on the billboard adult contemporary charts.

on may 2, 2006, brian littrell released his first solo album welcome home (you) with the title track as the first single. both album and single made the top 3 on the billboard christian charts.

 new album .
the now quartet backstreet boys have returned to the studio to start recording songs for their follow up to 2005's never gone, due out in the spring of 2007. brian littrell has said the upcoming album will be more guitar driven and will have an old school jackswing and eurodance sound. there has also been little to no information as to which producers the group has been working with, but rumored names include: rodney jerkins, stargate, max martin, rami, emanuel kiriakou, dan muckala, teddy riley, and jim jonsin.

 departure of kevin richardson from the band .
on june 23, 2006 the band issued a statement regarding kevin richardson's intention to leave the backstreet boys. the reason stated was his wish to pursue other interests that he could not while in the group. the rest of the backstreet boys wished him the best of luck in the future and they have no plans on replacing him. they noted that he would always be welcome to return should he wish to do so.  since then, kevin has returned to the role of "billy flynn" in the broadway musical chicago for a short engagement in toronto, canada from november 21 december 3, 2006.

 discography .


 trivia .

 according to guinness book of world records in 2001, "the biggest boy band in history" was the backstreet boys when they achieved record-breaking sales of 17 million copies of their album millennium by march 2001.
 the backstreet boys are the only group in canadian history to have three consecutive diamond albums, commemorating sales of over ten million units.
 backstreet boys hold the record for being the world's biggest money maker for concerts and album sales since their debut in 1997 to 2005 with us$534 million according to jive records and as ranked by celender magazine.
 the backstreet boys gave 8 performances at the 2000 grammy awards.
 in august 1998, 50 fans were treated for various injuries including hyperventilation and fainting at a concert in alberta.
 the backstreet boys are the only artists to win a record four world music awards for three years in a row since 1999-2001.
 according to jive records, the band is "the highest selling boy band of all time", selling 98 million albums worldwide. ;
 us$14 million of merchandise was purchased by fans during the 1999 "into the millennium" tour.
 in 2000 60 concert-goers were hurt at a performance in washington as the crowd was pushing forward to the stage.
 the backstreet boys have sold a total 200 million books worldwide.
 "i want it that way" was ranked no. 10 on rolling stone & mtv's 100 greatest pop songs list.
 the backstreet boys have been ranked #22 on the top 500 pop artists of the past 25 years list in 2005.
 the band performed the american national anthem at super bowl xxxv in tampa, florida in 2001.
 in a 2001 billboard.com poll, 30% of the 16,863 votes for the top album of 2001 were for "black and blue". the next closest challenger, the beatles' "1", pulled in 15% of the vote.
 in 2001 over one million tickets for the "2001 black & blue u.s. tour" were sold during the first 24 hours of availability.
 the backstreet boys teamed with stan lee to produce a web-based franchise named the backstreet project which chronicled the adventures of the backstreet boys as cyber-crusaders. the project debuted as a limited-edition collector's comic book that was sold exclusively at backstreet boys concerts. the animated series was launched on the web in the summer of 2000 using macromedia flash animation and was sold out on the first day. (see link in the external links section).
 "i'll never break your heart" was the #1 video on the first episode of mtv's total request live in 1998.
in 1998, orlando declared october 7 as the official "backstreet boys day" in honor of the tornado relief concert the group headlined which raised about $250,000 for local victims of the devastation.
in 2002, the mayor of baltimore, maryland, proclaimed march 2, as the official "backstreet boys day" in conjunction with their fan convention.
in april 2006, the backstreet boys were given a recording academy honors award to mark their success in the music industry so far.
the band performed at the 2006 nfl pro bowl halftime show.

see also.
list of best-selling music artists;
list of best selling music artists in us;
list of best-selling albums (usa);
list of best-selling albums worldwide;
top ten best-selling albums of sound scan era;
list of world's most expensive music videos;
list of backstreet boys awards;



references.


external links.
 backstreet boys official website;
 backstreet boys jive website;
 backstreet boys china official website;
 backstreet boys at music pearl;
































</doc>
<doc id="118314" title="troy township, michigan" nonfiltered="577" processed="566" dbindex="583">
troy township is a civil township of newaygo county in the u.s. state of michigan. the population was 243 at the 2000 census.

geography.
according to the united states census bureau, the township has a total area of 93.9 km\b2 (36.2 mi\b2).  93.7 km\b2 (36.2 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.2 km\b2 (0.1 mi\b2) of it (0.22%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census2 of 2000, there were 243 people, 97 households, and 67 families residing in the township.  the population density was 2.6/km\b2 (6.7/mi\b2).  there were 184 housing units at an average density of 2.0/km\b2 (5.1/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the township was 93.00% white, 2.06% african american, 4.94% from other races. hispanic or latino of any race were 4.94% of the population.

there were 97 households out of which 34.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 54.6% were married couples living together, 10.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 29.9% were non-families. 24.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 4.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.51 and the average family size was 2.96.

in the township the population was spread out with 26.7% under the age of 18, 12.3% from 18 to 24, 22.2% from 25 to 44, 29.6% from 45 to 64, and 9.1% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 36 years. for every 100 females there were 118.9 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 111.9 males.

the median income for a household in the township was $26,250, and the median income for a family was $32,500. males had a median income of $28,333 versus $19,375 for females. the per capita income for the township was $12,665.  about 18.6% of families and 19.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 29.3% of those under the age of eighteen and none of those sixty five or over.




</doc>
<doc id="384541" title="lilith (computer)" nonfiltered="578" processed="567" dbindex="584">
lilith is the name of custom built workstation using the amd 2901 bit-slice processor by the group of  niklaus wirth at eth z\fcrich. the project started in 1977 and by 1984 several hundred workstations were in use. it had a high resolution full page display, a mouse, a laser printer interface, and a network interface. its software was written completely in modula-2 and included a relational database program called lidas.

history.



the development of lilith was influenced by the xerox alto from the xerox parc (1973) where wirth worked from 1976 to 1977. unable to bring back one of the alto to europe, wirth decided to build a new system from scratch .

notes.

there was also a soviet clone of the lilith called kronos.

external links.
 geissman, l et al. (august 1982) lilith handbook (pdf file);
 knudsen, s (1983) medos-2: a modula-2 oriented operating system for the personal computer lilith (pdf file);
 wirth, n (1981) the personal computer lilith (pdf file);
 a brief history of modula and lilith;
 lilith and modula-2;
 ethistory - lilith workstation;
 amd am2901dc entry on cpu world;








</doc>
<doc id="9096932" title="calling all cars (song)" nonfiltered="579" processed="568" dbindex="585">


"calling all cars" is the lead single off of senses fail's newest album, still searching. the song was released coinciding with the album itself. the itunes store release contains the bonus track "stretch your legs to coffin length". a music video was released prior to both the release of the single and the album.

track listing.

"calling all cars"   3:25;
"stretch your legs to coffin length"   3:02;




</doc>
<doc id="35071" title="1830" nonfiltered="580" processed="569" dbindex="586">
this page is about the year 1830. for the board game, see 1830.;




year 1830 (mdcccxxx) was a common year starting on friday (link will display the full calendar) of the gregorian calendar (or a common year starting on sunday of the 12-day slower julian calendar).

events of 1830.
january - march.
      
 february 3 - greece gains full independence from the ottoman empire as the final result of the greek war of independence. negotiations for the borders between the two states continue until 1832, under the supervision of russia, france and britain.

april - june.
      
 april 6 - joseph smith, jr. and five others organize the church of christ, the first formally-organized church of the latter day saint movement, in northwestern new york.
 may 13 - ecuador separates from gran colombia.
 may 28 - us congress passes the indian removal act;
 june 26 - william iv succeeds george iv as king of the united kingdom.

july - september.
      

 july 5 - france invades algeria - see french period in algeria.
 july 17 - barth\e9lemy thimonnier is granted a patent (#7454) for a sewing machine in france. it chains stitches at 200/minute.
 july 18 - uruguay adopts its first constitution.
 july 20 - greece grants citizenship to jews.
 july 27 - france: beginning of the july revolution.
 august 9 - france: louis philippe becomes king of the french.
 august 13 - france: duc de broglie becomes prime minister.
 august 25 - beginning of the belgian revolution.
 august 31 - edwin beard budding is granted a patent for the invention of lawnmower.
 september 15 - liverpool and manchester railway opened (world's first intercity passenger railway operated solely by steam locomotives).

october - december.
      
 october 4 - the provisional government in brussels declares the creation of the independent state of belgium, in revolt against the government of the netherlands.
 november 2 - france: jacques laffitte succeeds the duc de broglie as prime minister;
 november 8 - ferdinand ii becomes king of the two sicilies;
 november 22 - the whig charles grey, 2nd earl grey succeeds arthur wellesley, 1st duke of wellington as prime minister of the united kingdom;
 november 29 - beginning of a major polish insurrection in warsaw against russian rule.
 december 5 - world premiere of hector berlioz's most famous work, symphonie fantastique, in paris.
 december 20 - recognition of the independence of belgium by the great powers.


births.


january - june.
      
february 3 - robert arthur talbot gascoyne-cecil, 3rd marquess of salisbury, prime minister of the united kingdom (d. 1903);
february 9 - abd al-aziz, ottoman sultan (d. 1876);
march 15 - paul von heyse, german writer, nobel prize laureate (d. 1914);

july - december. 
      
august 18 - emperor franz joseph i of austria (d. 1916);
september 2 - william p. frye, american politician (d. 1911);
september 8 - fr\e9d\e9ric mistral, french writer, nobel prize laureate (d. 1914);
september 15 - porfirio d\edaz, president of mexico (d. 1915);
december 10 - emily dickinson, american poet (d. 1886);

unknown dates. 
mary hunt, american activist (d. 1906);

 see also .;

deaths.
january - june.
      
january 7 - thomas lawrence, english painter (b. 1769);
march 17 - laurent, marquis de gouvion saint-cyr, french marshal (b. 1764);
june 4 - antonio jos\e9 de sucre, venezuelan revolutionary leader and statesman (b. 1795) ;
june 26 - king george iv of the united kingdom (b. 1762);

july - december. 
      
september 18 - william hazlitt, british essayist (b. 1778);
november 8 - king francis i of the two sicilies (b. 1777);
december 1 - pope pius viii (b. 1761);
december 8 - benjamin constant, swiss writer (b. 1767);
december 17 - sim\f3n bol\edvar, venezuelan revolutionary leader and statesman (b. 1783);

unknown dates. 
 (none);

 see also .;

 see also .
 1830 in france;
 1830 in the united kingdom;
 




























































































</doc>
<doc id="2407203" title="joseph de piro" nonfiltered="581" processed="570" dbindex="587">
joseph de piro was born in malta on november 2, 1877 into a wealthy and influential family. as a young man he thought about becoming a lawyer but then felt that god was calling him to the priesthood. in 1903, after the completion of his studies, he was ordained in rome.

he was involved in different ministries within the church, but his main concerns were the missions and work amongst the poor. as a young priest, he began to work towards bringing to fruition his long cherished dream of establishing a society of priests and brothers committed to the spreading of the good news. june 30, 1910 was the foundation day of the missionary society of st. paul (mssp). to its first members he passed on his missionary zeal and his love for those in need. 

in 1927 he sent his first missionary, br. joseph caruana, to ethiopia. six years later he himself was going there to help consolidate this new mission, but on september 17, 1933 he died leaving a small group of priests and brothers without his valuable leadership. the society went through difficult times till the 1950s, its members holding on to de piro's prophetic words spoken not long before he died, "the society will grow only after my death." 

today paulist missionaries seek to live out their founding charism in a world of change. we are witnessing to god's love through our missionary commitment: in parishes, in schools, in youth centers, in migrant centers, among the poor and the needy, and in far away lands. our missionary presence is in australia, peru, pakistan, the philippines, the united states, canada, italy and malta.

 external links .

 joseph de piro information website;







</doc>
<doc id="9134133" title="finsoft" nonfiltered="582" processed="571" dbindex="588">




established in 1995, finsoft is a software company who provide solutions and real-time transactional and information management systems to major investment banks as well as some of the most advanced bookmaking operators in world.

external links.
finsoft.com (corporate site);


</doc>
<doc id="564858" title="pyridoxamine" nonfiltered="583" processed="572" dbindex="589">


pyridoxamine is one of the compounds composing vitamin b6, along with pyridoxal and pyridoxine. it is converted to the biologically active form pyridoxal 5-phosphate.

it is based on a pyridine ring, with hydroxyl, methyl, aminomethyl, and hydroxymethyl substituents.

it differs from pyridoxine by the subsitituent at the '4' position. it is sometimes used as 'pyridoxamine dihydrochloride'.


see vitamin b6 for more information.






external links.












</doc>
<doc id="3098480" title="benjamin f. jonas" nonfiltered="584" processed="573" dbindex="590">


benjamin franklin jonas (1834   december 21, 1911) was a politician in louisiana and an officer in the confederate states army during the american civil war.

jonas was born in new orleans, louisiana. he enlisted in the army during the early days of the civil war and initially served in the fenner artillery. he was later promoted to the rank of major. he was a member of the louisiana state house of representatives in 1865. 

following the war, he served as a u.s. senator during reconstruction as a democrat from 1879 85.











</doc>
<doc id="2985622" title="grant hall" nonfiltered="585" processed="574" dbindex="591">


grant hall is the most recognizable landmark on the campus of queen's university in kingston, ontario, canada. it is located on university avenue, just north of bader lane.

it was built by the queen's student government to honour the legacy of then-principal george munro grant. it has stood for over a century as a symbol of the university. to students, it represents tradition, pride, and the queen's spirit. many ceremonial events, plays, and concerts take place in grant hall. as it is mainly a convocation hall, classes rarely take place within its walls, although it is used for exams.

for a time during world war i it was also used as a military hospital. 

history.

originally, the plan was to name the new convocation hall "frontenac hall", for queen's had appealed to the citizens of frontenac county for a gift of funds for a new building. they had reason to expect success, especially in light of the fact that the ontario and kingston governments had made pledges: funds which resulted in ontario and kingston halls respectively. the citizens of frontenac county voted overwhelmingly against the idea, however, and things looked grim, for no alternate source of funds was in sight.

there has been much speculation on why frontenac refused to fund the building. one theory states that it was simply too much to ask, as frontenac was not a rich county and populated mostly by farmers. the other theory is that the refusal was the result of a grudge: the leading citizens of frontenac were strong supporters of the idea of prohibition, and principal grant was not. he had spoken out publicly against the idea, feeling it was impractical, and some say the people of frontenac never forgave him.

in the end it was the students, led by the ams president james wallace, that stepped forward and informed the trustees that they intended to raise the money themselves, but were planning on calling the building grant hall. principal grant objected at first, saying that the hall should keep its original name, but the students replied smartly that if they were to find the funds, surely they could name it whatever they liked. grant accepted the honour with a modest delight, and the campaign began. the students, over the winter of 1901-1902, raised the $35,000 needed for the hall. they collected money from alumni and friends of queen's, using the respect and love that grant inspired in the queen's community to motivate people to contribute to his monument. one third of the money came from the students themselves, many of whom lived on the poverty line. students used their scholarship money, took odd jobs around the town, and committed themselves to ten-year subscriptions to come up with the needed funds.

this spectacular achievement was overshadowed by the sadness of grant's death in may of 1902. the tribute to him had become a memorial before the first stone was laid. when completed in 1905, however, it was the pride of the campus. grant hall was instantly a symbol of queen's, just as grant had been. the original clock tower was designed and built by hand by the dean of practical science nathan fellowes dupuis, and when it ceased to work in 1993, a new one was installed and - like the building itself - paid for by the students.






</doc>
<doc id="5889651" title="psycho circus (song)" nonfiltered="586" processed="575" dbindex="592">

"psycho circus" is a song by the american hard rock band kiss. it is the title track from the 1998 album with the same name. the b-side is the non-album track "in your face", a song written by kiss bassist/vocalist gene simmons and sung by guitarist ace frehley.

"psycho circus" was written by guitarist/vocalist paul stanley and collaborator curt cuomo specifically to fit the theme of the psycho circus tour and album. according to producer bruce fairbairn, "we didn't have an opener for the record. we didn't have anything that was going to start things off. and  just looked at me and said, 'check this. this is it...' we both sat there and looked at each other and started to laugh. because that was it" 

a video was made to promote the single, which was made in the same 3-d theme as the album and tour, and was directed by james hurlburt and produced by doc mcghee and eddie vasker. the video was ignored by mtv.



as a single, the song did not make an appearance in the billboard hot 100 in the united states, although it would prove to be a top ten hit in other countries in the world, including canada and norway.

the song would open sets for the band on the psycho circus tour to support the album, and was performed on kiss's performance with the melbourne symphony orchestra and subsequent live album kiss symphony: alive iv in 2003.

"psycho circus" was nominated for a grammy award in 1999 for best hard rock performance, although they lost out to jimmy page and robert plant as their track "most high" got the award.

"psycho circus" was also featured in the third season episode "thirteen years later" (a halloween episode) of millennium.





references.








</doc>
<doc id="1235746" title="john love" nonfiltered="587" processed="576" dbindex="593">
this article is about the racecar driver. for the colorado governor, see john arthur love.;
for the virginia congressman and lawyer, see john love (congressman).;


john love (born in bulawayo, december 7, 1924 - died april 25, 2005) was a formula one driver from rhodesia.  he participated in 10 grands prix, debuting on december 29, 1962.  he achieved 1 podium, and scored a total of 6 championship points.

six times south african f1 champion in the 1960s, this rhodesian star had originally shone in the european formula junior firmament back in 1961-62 at the wheel of a cooper-austin from ken tyrrell's team. an unfortunate accident at albi resulted in a very badly broken arm and effectively thwarted his chances of moving into full-time f1, but he came close when he was nominated as phil hill's replacement in the works cooper team for the 1964 italian grand prix at monza. nevertheless, he became a regular contestant in the south african grand prix and was leading the 1967 event at kyalami in his 2.7 l climax-engined cooper when a misfire prompted him to make a precautionary stop for extra fuel and he dropped back to finish second behind the works cooper-maserati of pedro rodriguez.

complete formula one results.
(note: grands prix in bold denote points scoring races.)



external links.
 f1 rejects - to have loved and lost;











</doc>
<doc id="6714345" title="oleo (song)" nonfiltered="588" processed="577" dbindex="594">
"oleo" is a bebop composition by sonny rollins, written in 1954. it is one of the most popular pieces to feature rhythm changes. the performer is expected to improvise the b section, as only the a section is transcribed.

an early version of it was recorded by the miles davis quintet in 1956 on the album relaxin'.






</doc>
<doc id="3971474" title="venetian lira" nonfiltered="589" processed="578" dbindex="595">
the venetian lira was the independent currency of venice until 1807. it was subdivided into 20 soldi, each of 12 denari. the tallero was equal to 7 lire. the lira of napoleon's kingdom of italy replaced the venetian lira in 1807.






</doc>
<doc id="1528906" title="334 chicago" nonfiltered="590" processed="579" dbindex="596">



334 chicago is a very large main belt asteroid. it is classified as a c-type asteroid and is probably composed of carbonaceous material. 

it was discovered by max wolf on august 23, 1892 in heidelberg.
















</doc>
<doc id="794857" title="clarence joseph bulliet" nonfiltered="591" processed="580" dbindex="597">


clarence joseph bulliet (march 16, 1883 - october 20, 1952) was an american art critic and author.  also referenced commonly as "c.j." bulliet.  he was the grandfather of richard bulliet, a present day historian.

bulliet grew up in corydon, indiana and graduated in 1904 from indiana university. for nine years he pursued a journalism career in indianapolis. his theater reviews resulted in an offer from robert mantell, the head of a touring shakespeare company, to become his press agent. bulliet traveled in advance of the company throughout the united states and canada for nine years, except for one year when he was a regional advance man for d. w. griffith's "birth of a nation." after a brief return to newspaper journalism in louisville, kentucky, he moved to chicago to edit the weekly art magazine of the chicago evening post. art criticism then remained his primary occupation even after the post was absorbed by the chicago daily news. he played a central role in popularizing of modern art in the middle west and in organizing chicago's independent artists, who felt snubbed by the conservative tastes that dominated the chicago art institute. he was married to southern indiana artist katherine adams bulliet and they had one son, leander jackson. after the death of his first wife in 1947 he married catherine girdler bulliet. "robert mantell's romance," bulliet's first book, appeared in 1918. his "apples and madonnas" (1927) gained great popularity as an introduction to modern art. "venus castina" (1928) was a pioneering work on males impersonating females. "the courtesan olympia" explored relations between artists' models and mistresses. his most popular work was a collection of newspaper articles entitled "art masterpieces of the  world's fair" (1933-4). his final book was "the significant moderns and their pictures" (1936).







</doc>
<doc id="6203689" title="monterey country club" nonfiltered="592" processed="581" dbindex="598">
 
built before 1885, the monterey country club is home to one of the oldest golf courses in the united states. the club sits just below the peaks of 1,720 mt. dunlap and 1,365 monterey peak in blue ridge summit, pennsylvania and is less than one mile from the mason-dixon line and about 8 miles away from camp david. the club has served as a summer retreat for many washingtonians, and american presidents woodrow wilson, calvin coolidge and dwight d. eisenhower have all played the monterey country club course. in 1896 wallis simpson was born in square cottage next to the old monterey inn directly across the road from first green. she later married prince edward, duke of windsor and became the duchess of windsor.

the monterey country club sits upon 37 acres that were once part of a mountain swamp that bogged down general robert e. lee and the army of northern virginia as they retreated from the battle of gettysburg in july of 1863. lee's confederate troops left gettysburg via the hagerstown road and as they passed through blue ridge summit, some small skirmishes occurred here as they continued their retreat.



</doc>
<doc id="391149" title="mad season" nonfiltered="593" processed="582" dbindex="599">
for the album by matchbox twenty, please see mad season (album).;


mad season was a grunge supergroup formed in late 1994 by members of three popular seattle based bands: alice in chains, pearl jam and screaming trees. mad season only released one album, above, and is best known for the single "river of deceit".

history.

mad season was formed in 1994 by the trio of mike mccready (guitar), barrett martin (drums) and john baker saunders (bass). all three had long been a part of the seattle music community with mccready playing in such bands as pearl jam and temple of the dog, martin with skin yard and the screaming trees and saunders with the walkabouts as well as blues talents such as little pat rushing, hubert sumlin, sammy fender, and the lamont cranston band.

immediately the trio set up rehearsal time together and wrote two songs, "wake up" and "river of deceit", both of which would later appear on their album above. mccready then brought in friend and alice in chains frontman layne staley to round out the lineup.

despite not having a single song completely prepared (only beginnings of songs, according to martin) and not even having a name for the band, mccready scheduled an unannounced show at the crocodile cafe in october 1994, which turned out to be a big success.  in fact, the song "artificial red", which was also to appear on the album, actually came together during the show itself.

two more gigs were scheduled at the same venue, with the band calling themselves the gacy bunch, after both the notorious serial killer john wayne gacy of chicago and a sitcom from the 1970s called the brady bunch.

on january 8 of 1995, the band made an appearance on pearl jam's self-pollution radio worldwide broadcast, performing "lifeless dead" and "i don't know anything".

after gaining more popularity, the band recorded their only album and changed their name to mad season, which is an english term for the time of the year when psilocybin mushrooms are in full bloom.

the album, above, which was recorded in seattle at bad animals studio (co-owned by ann and nancy wilson of heart) and co-produced by the band and pearl jam sound engineer brett eliason, featured 10 songs. it also included guest vocals by screaming trees frontman and solo artist mark lanegan.  the album was released on march 15, 1995 on columbia records to critical and commercial success. over the course of 1995, above scaled the billboard 200 eventually peaking at #24, furthermore spawning two singles: "river of deceit" (#2 mainstream rock tracks, #9 modern rock tracks) and "i don't know anything" (#20 mainstream rock tracks). above was certified gold on june 14 of that year.

the band continued to play shows during the spring of '95 before going on hiatus to return to work with their main bands. during this time the band released the 'live at the moore theatre' video which was a live performance recorded at seattle's moore theatre on april 29, 1995. also during this time the band contributed a cover of john lennon's "i don't wanna be a soldier" to the john lennon tribute compilation working class hero.

in 1996 a live version of "river of deceit" surfaced on the bite back: live at crocodile cafe compilation although by this time mad season had long been dormant from live work.

in 1997 attempts were made by mccready, saunders and martin to revive mad season although by this point staley's health had worsened due to severe drug addiction. as a result he declined to participate in the project any further thus leaving mad season without a singer.

with staley now out of the picture, the band recruited vocalist mark lanegan (of the screaming trees) who had previously guested on the above album (as well as at live shows) as their new permanent singer. with the switch in frontman the group also switched names adopting the 'disinformation' moniker in late 1997. 

work reportedly began in 1998 on what would have been disinformation's debut album although between everyone's busy schedules studio time was hard to come by. over the course of the year the quartet gradually grew apart making a 'disinformation' album all the more unlikely. another critical blow was dealt to the project in january 1999 with the death of bassist john baker saunders (from an overdose of heroin). the group (esp. saunders' long-time friend mike mccready) were deeply saddened to hear news of his death. 

although no official announcement was ever given, it is widely accepted that mad season/disinformation broke up following saunders' death.

post-mad season/disinformation.

following saunders' death, mccready returned to work with pearl jam and also later formed new side project the rockfords. martin briefly returned to work with screaming trees before they too disbanded in 2000. since then martin has worked as occasional touring drummer for r.e.m. and performs with r.e.m guitarist peter buck in the band tuatara. staley briefly reunited with alice in chains in the late nineties before dropping out of the public eye permanently. his body was later found on april 19, 2002 in his condominium, the victim of an apparent overdose of cocaine and heroin. lanegan has gone on to a relatively successful solo career and has also worked with stoner rock icons queens of the stone age.

band members.

layne staley - vocals, guitar (1994-1995) (deceased);
mike mccready - guitar;
john baker saunders - bass (deceased);
barrett martin - drums;
mark lanegan - vocals;
skerik - saxophone, percussion (touring 1994-1995);

discography.
albums.
above, columbia records (1995).

singles/eps.
"river of deceit", columbia records (1995).
"i don't know anything", columbia records (1995).

soundtrack/compilation contributions.
"i don't wanna be a soldier" on working class hero: a tribute to john lennon, hollywood records (1995).
"river of deceit" (live) on bite back: live at the crocodile cafe, popllama records (1996).

videography.
live at the moore theatre, columbia records (1995).

see also.
list of grunge supergroups;

references.
prato, greg. "mad season". all music guide. retrieved june 13, 2005.

external links.
mad season concert chronology, and discussion forum;
the river of deceit: a mad season homepage;
sony music: mad season;
mad season guitar tablature;





















</doc>
<doc id="4704853" title="yolande palfrey" nonfiltered="594" processed="583" dbindex="600">
yolande palfrey (born 29 march 1957) is an english actress, best remembered for her bbc work including wings, pennies from heaven, measure for measure, blake's 7 (pressure point), crime and punishment, nanny, and doctor who (terror of the vervoids).

she also appeared in (among others) the finishing line for british transport films, love in a cold climate for thames television, dragonslayer for the walt disney company and paramount pictures, and the breadwinner for yorkshire television.

her stage performances have included murder, dear watson at the mill at sonning and great expectations at the old vic.

she attended the arts educational school, tring park and the arts educational schools in london.

she is married to felix lejac and has two children, born in 1993 and 1996.

available on dvd: ghosts of motley hall (christmas special) (1977), blake's 7 series 2 (pressure point) (1979), crime and punishment (1979) (ntsc only), dragonslayer (1981).









</doc>
<doc id="1347630" title="royal ballet school" nonfiltered="595" processed="584" dbindex="601">
the royal ballet school is a specialist, co-educational school in london, england. it combines a mainstream academic education with an intensive dance training. the royal ballet school's mission is to train ballet dancers to the standard necessary for entrance to the royal ballet in london, and the birmingham royal ballet. graduates also enter other ballet companies or dance and contemporary dance companies, or pursue careers outside of dance.

the school was founded in 1931 by dame ninette de valois. she had first established a dance school for girls called the academy of choreographic art in 1926, and later developed a relationship with lilian baylis's theatre, the old vic. when baylis acquired the sadler's wells theatre, a studio was built there to train de valois's dancers. a proper school was created in talgarth road in 1947. in 1948 the school became co-educational, acquired a royal charter and became the royal ballet school. 

the royal ballet school is divided into two sections. the lower school caters to students aged from 11 16 and is located in southwest london at white lodge, richmond park. the students are taught a wide range of modern and traditional dance styles in addition to ballet, and also take gcses. the lower school is primarily a boarding school, but also takes day pupils. the upper school provides a three-year course in classical ballet training for 16 19 year olds, that is one year past the usual school leaving age in the uk, as well as a-levels and btec national awards. in january of 2003, the upper school moved to new premises  in central london, on floral street, covent garden. it connects to the royal opera house by a fourth floor level spiral bridge spanning floral street. a significant number of international students enter the school at upper school level. upper school students do not board, but accommodation for students whose families do not live in london is arranged by the school. 

fees assistance is provided by the government for united kingdom students, and also european union students on a more restricted basis. students from families with very low incomes pay no fees. in 2004/2005, parents with an income of \a390,000 (approximately $170,000), after certain deductions, are required to make a contribution of \a313,455 (approximately $26,000).

in the film billy elliot, billy visits the royal ballet school, but wardour castle in wiltshire was used for the location shoot. 

external link.
official site;









</doc>
<doc id="2988948" title="bangladeshi american" nonfiltered="596" processed="585" dbindex="602">
bangladeshi americans or bengali-americans are individuals of bangladeshi descent who reside in the united states. the overwhelming majority of bangladeshi americans are ethnically bengalis, and speak bengali. the majority of immigrants from bangladesh come from the districts of sylhet and chittagong as people from these two districts have a long history of working as merchant marines; the sylheti and chittagonian dialects of bengali are most often heard in the streets of major urban centers of the united states such as new york, chicago, los angeles, houston, miami, etc.

most bangladeshi americans adhere to islam, although there are a handful of hindu, buddhist, and christian bangladeshi americans as well.

many bangladeshi americans are closely associated with the indian american community, particularly with those of bengali indian descent.

while ethnic bengalis have been living in the united states for decades, bangladeshi americans are a new community. as bangladesh has only been an independent country since 1971, the first immigrants specifically from that nation traveled to the united states in the 1970s. prior to that date, all bengali americans were considered either indian american or pakistani american.

the real-life mujibur rahman and sirajul islam were actual shopkeepers of a souvenir shop (k & l's rock america)  next to the ed sullivan theater when david letterman formed an impromptu friendship with them on camera on the late show with david letterman in the show's first season in the autumn of 1994.  the two friends from bangladesh became celebrities from their frequent appearances on the show and acted as "dave's ambassadors" when he sent them on a tour of the united states. ;

demographics.
the 2000 census undertaken by the census bureau listed 95,294 people identifying themselves as having bangladeshi origin. almost 50% of bangladeshis over the age of 25 had at least a bachelor's degree as compared to less than 25% of the united states population.  the reported median family income for bangladeshis was $50,046, which was higher than the united states average of $38,146 that year.

notables.
 list of bangladeshi americans ;

see also.
 desi;
 demographics of bangladesh;
 asian american;

external links.
 us census 2000 foreign born population by country;














</doc>
<doc id="3318835" title="dr. univ." nonfiltered="597" processed="586" dbindex="603">


dr. univ. is an abbreviation for "doctor universitatis" (doctor of university in english). it was a doctoral rank in hungary classified between master of arts and csc (candidatus scientiarum = old-style phd). it was abolished in the 1990s; i.e., no more dr.univ. degrees were given. many of those already having dr. univ. degree had it converted into phd.

since that time, some universities in north america have taken to awarding a doctor of the university or d.univ as an honorary degree instead of the more usual ll.d.



</doc>
<doc id="7315802" title="subnet zero" nonfiltered="598" processed="587" dbindex="604">
 
subnet zero is a computer networking term for the first subnet obtained after subnetting a network address.

using subnet zero for addressing was discouraged at one point due to the confusion created by having a network and subnet with the same address.  according to rfc 950, "it is useful to preserve and extend the interpretation of these special (network and broadcast) addresses in subnetted networks. this means the values of all zeros and all ones in the subnet field should not be assigned to actual (physical) subnets."

this practice of avoiding subnet zero eventually became obsolete with rfc 1878, published in 1995.

external links.
subnet zero and the all-ones subnet;

\



</doc>
<doc id="136977" title="sunset, utah" nonfiltered="599" processed="588" dbindex="605">
sunset is a city in davis county, utah, united states. the population was 5,204 at the 2000 census.and by 2004 had been estimated to decline to exactly 5,000.  in that four-year period, sunset fell from the 59th-largest incorporated place in utah to the 70th-largest

geography.

sunset is located at  (41.140544, -112.029665).

according to the united states census bureau, the city has a total area of 3.8 km\b2 (1.5 mi\b2), all land.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 5,204 people, 1,785 households, and 1,435 families residing in the city. the population density was 1,366.9/km\b2 (3,532.3/mi\b2). there were 1,832 housing units at an average density of 481.2/km\b2 (1,243.5/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the city was 86.88% white, 1.56% african american, 0.92% native american, 2.75% asian, 0.15% pacific islander, 4.73% from other races, and 3.02% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 10.51% of the population.

there were 1,785 households out of which 40.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 61.6% were married couples living together, 13.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 19.6% were non-families. 15.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 6.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 2.92 and the average family size was 3.24.

in the city the population was spread out with 30.4% under the age of 18, 11.4% from 18 to 24, 28.7% from 25 to 44, 17.2% from 45 to 64, and 12.3% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 29 years. for every 100 females there were 101.5 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 99.3 males.

the median income for a household in the city was $41,726, and the median income for a family was $44,458. males had a median income of $30,423 versus $23,262 for females. the per capita income for the city was $16,078. about 7.3% of families and 7.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 12.5% of those under age 18 and 1.6% of those age 65 or over.

external links.





</doc>
<doc id="7041972" title="tartak" nonfiltered="600" processed="589" dbindex="606">

tartak (, tartak) is a ukrainian popular rock group.  it mixes styles of guitar rock, hip-hop and dance music to produce energetic compositions and lyrics.  oleksandr (sashko) polozhynskyi founded the group in the fall of 1996 in lutsk, ukraine.

the group has released five albums with a total of 74 songs and 9 videos.  tartak songs:  ni ja ne tu kohav and stilnykove kohannja   stayed on top40 charts for 144 days and 75 days respectively.  tartak was one of the bands that performed during the events of the orange revolution as seen in the picture to the right.

the word "tartak" means a woodsaw.  sashko thought that tartak symbolized something energetic, loud, active, and hence appropriate for a band name.

references.

inline;



external links.
  tartak official biography by sashko polozhynskyi;






</doc>
<doc id="6818465" title="zafrilla" nonfiltered="601" processed="590" dbindex="607">
zafrilla is a municipality in cuenca, castile-la mancha, spain. it has a population of 120.






</doc>
<doc id="895691" title="andr\e9 brie" nonfiltered="602" processed="591" dbindex="608">

dr. andr\e9 brie (born on 13 march 1950 in schwerin)
is a german politician and
member of the european parliament since 1999 for
the party of democratic socialism,
part of the european left and sits on
the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs.

he is also a substitute for the committee on petitions
and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.

he is also a member of the pds regional party council in
mecklenburg-western pomerania.
education.
 1968: skilled tool-maker;
 1976: degree in political science;
 1979: dr.rer.pol.;
 1985: dr.sc.;

career.
 1976-1983: academic assistant at the institute for international relations, potsdam-babelsberg (iib);
 1983-1986: senior assistant at the iib;
 1986-1989: lecturer and assistant professor at the iib;
 1990: lecturer at the humboldt university, berlin;
 1990-1999: staff member of the pds executive committee, and pds election campaign manager;
 1990-1992: deputy chairman of the pds;
 since 2003: member of the mecklenburg-vorpommern land executive of the pds;
 since 1999: member of the european parliament;

see also: european parliament election, 2004 (germany)

external links.
 ;
 ;
 ;










</doc>
<doc id="726889" title="peter johnstone" nonfiltered="603" processed="592" dbindex="609">
peter johnstone (born 1944) was the governor of anguilla from february 4, 2000 until april 29, 2004.

external links.
world statesmen - anguilla;












</doc>
<doc id="3532996" title="jamil rostami" nonfiltered="604" processed="593" dbindex="610">
jamil rostami            (born 1971, sanandaj, iran) is an iranian film director of kurdish origin. 

in 2002 he made his first short film titled the trouble of being a boy which was screened in 24 domestic and international festivals and was awarded several prizes. 

he made his first feature length film, requiem of snow in 2005. fariborz lachini one of the most famous iranian film music composers, made the music of the film. the photography of the film was done by morteza poursamadi, a celebrated iranian photographer. the movie was awarded  prestigious fajr's simorgh for the best director in asia and middle east. 



external links.
biography;





</doc>
<doc id="169798" title="sonia gandhi" nonfiltered="605" processed="594" dbindex="611">
 
sonia gandhi (, ),leader of the congress party of india, born sonia antonia  maino on december 9, 1946, is an italian-born indian politician, the president of the indian national congress and the widow of former prime minister of india, rajiv gandhi. she is the chairperson of the ruling united progressive alliance in the lok sabha, and the leader of the congress parliamentary party. she was named the third most powerful woman in the world by forbes magazine in the year 2004  and currently ranks 13th. 
she was returned to parliament by a margin of over 400,000 votes in the recently held by-election for rae bareilly after the office of profit controversy. 

early life.
born to stefano and paola maino, as sonia antonia maino, in lusiana, a little village 50 km from vicenza, italy, she spent her adolescence in orbassano, a town near turin being raised in a roman catholic family and attending a catholic school. her father, a building contractor and former fascist supporter, died in 1983 . her mother and two sisters still live around orbassano. 

in 1964, she went to study english at the bell educational trust's language school in the city of cambridge. while doing this certificate course she met rajiv gandhi, who was enrolled at the time in trinity college at the university of cambridge. they were married in 1968, after which she moved into the house of her mother-in-law and then prime minister, indira gandhi. 

it was not until 1983 that she acquired indian citizenship. the couple had two children, rahul gandhi (born 1970) and priyanka gandhi (born 1972). 

despite the family's heavy involvement in politics (her mother-in-law indira gandhi, daughter of jawaharlal nehru, was prime minister), sonia and rajiv avoided all involvement - rajiv worked as an airline pilot, and sonia took care of her family. when indira was ousted from office in 1977 and when rajiv entered politics in 1982, sonia continued to focus on her family and avoided all contact with publicity.

political career.
wife of the prime minister.

sonia gandhi's involvement with indian public life began after the assasination of her mother-in-law and her husband's election as prime minister. she took up indian citizenship as late as 1983 . as the the prime minister's wife she acted as his official hostess and also accompanied him on a number of state visits. she was also involved in looking after her husband's constituency of amethi. in 1984, she actively campaigned against her sister-in-law maneka gandhi who was running against rajiv in amethi. at the end of rajiv gandhi's five years in office the bofors scandal broke, and ottavio quattrocchi an italian business man believed to be involved, was said to be a friend of sonia gandhi and had access to the prime minister's official residence. 

congress president.

following her husband's assassination on may 21, 1991, there were calls for her to enter politics by members of the congress party.  sonia was vehement in her denunciation of politics and politicians. she is said to have stated that she would have rather seen her children beg than enter into the maelstrom of indian political life.  after her refusal, the party settled on the choice of p v narasimha rao as leader and, subsequently, prime minister. the congress fortunes continued to dwindle and it was feared that it would no longer be the largest party in parliament. several senior leaders such as madhavrao scindia, rajesh pilot, mamata banerjee, g k moopanar, p.chidambaram, jayanthi natarajan etc were in open revolt against the incumbent president sitaram kesri and quit the party, splitting the congress into many factions.

sonia finally joined the congress party as a primary member in the calcutta plenary session at 1997. at the last moment she began campaigning for the party and was credited with ensuring that the party's seat tally did not fall to double digits. the party made its poorest showing ever with just 141 seats in parliament. 

she officially took charge of the congress party as its president in 1998 becoming the fifth member of the nehru-gandhi family and the eighth foreign born person to become congress president. she was also the third foreign born woman to head the congress following annie besant and nellie sengupta. she was elected to the lok sabha in 1999 from her late husband's constituency of amethi.

leader of the opposition.
she was elected the leader of the opposition of the 13th lok sabha in 1999. during her campaign, her opponents (mainly the bharatiya janata party) played up her foreign birth, her failure to take indian citizenship for 15 years after her wedding, and her lack of fluency in hindi or any indian language despite her claim that she had "become an indian in her heart the day she became indira gandhi's daughter-in-law". in may 1999, sonia gandhi offered to resign from the congress party leadership after three senior leaders (sharad pawar, purno a. sangma and tariq anwar) challenged her right to try to become india's prime minister, given that she was not born of indian blood or soil.

despite her party not having a majority, she told the president that she had the numbers to form the government but embarassingly the final numbers fell short of 272. 

when the bjp led nda formed a government under vajpayee, she took on the office of the leader of opposition. as leader of opposition she a no-confidence motion against the nda government led by atal behari vajpayee in 2003. the motion was moved after the defence ministry refused to disclose the findings of central vigilance commission (cvc) probe into the allegations of corruption in purchase of caskets during the kargil war.while the motion was resoundingly defeated in the nda dominated house, she used the opportunity to kick of the congress' election campaign. in her own speech which had opened the debate she accused the government of ineptness in handling the kargil crisis and the violence in the north east. she also charged the government ministers with profiteering from the war. in their replies the government did not answer any questions raised by mrs gandhi but focussed their attack on her "foreign origins".

2004 elections and aftermath.

in the 2004 general elections, sonia launched a nationwide campaign, criss-crossing the country on the aam aadmi (ordinary people) slogan in contrast to the 'india shining' slogan of the bjp-led national democratic alliance (nda) alliance. she countered the bjp asking "who is india shining for?" after her party's unexpected victory, she was tipped to be the next prime minister of india. on may 16, she was unanimously chosen to lead a 15-party coalition government with the support of the left, which was subsequently named the united progressive alliance (upa). 

amidst a storm of controversy raised by the nda over her 'foreign origin' in which leaders like sushma swaraj threatened to shave their hair, as a protest, among others, gandhi was forcedeclined the leadership of the congress parliamentary party in the lok sabha. that position would have indicated that she was the party's nominee for prime minister. her action was hailed as an act of renunciation, while her opponents attacked it as a political move in which the ultimate aim was to gain an absolute majority for the congress party in parliament, subsequent to which she would become prime minister. 

at the time, several members of the national democratic alliance - notably subramaniam swamy and sushma swaraj - claimed that there were legal reasons that barred her from the prime minister's post, and, indeed, from parliament. . they pointed, in particular, to section 5 of the indian citizenship act of 1955, which they claimed implied 'reciprocity'. this was contested by others  and eventually the suits were dismissed by the supreme court of india. 
the supreme court of india dismissed an attempt to prosecute her for falsely claiming to have graduated from cambridge university during the election .

finally, in a speech given to congress m.ps in the central hall of parliament, she stated that she had never aimed to be prime minister and her entry into politics was only to preserve secularism and protect the poor. she said that after listening to the promptings of her "inner voice" she had no desire to occupy the prime minister's position. 

upa chairperson.



on may 18, she recommended noted economist dr. manmohan singh for the prime minister's post. dr. singh had served as india's finance minister in a previous congress party government headed by rao, and is considered by many as the chief architect of india's economic reforms of the early 1990s. moreover, the fact that he was not known to have any political ambitions and that he enjoyed a good rapport with sonia gandhi probably helped him to win the post. sonia retained the post of the leader of the majority and the chairperson of the congress parliamentary party. this arrangement enabled her to keep political control of the party and to deal with the political fire fights in the giant coalition government while leaving the management of the country in the hands of manmohan singh.

on march 23, 2006, gandhi announced her resignation from the lok sabha and also as chairperson of the national advisory council. according to indian electoral law, an elected person cannot hold an office of profit (meaning paid posts). she was re-elected from her constituency rae bareilly in may 2006.

as chairperson of the national advisory committee, she played an important role in making the national rural employment guarantee scheme and the right to information act into law.

leadership style.  	 

at the start of her career sonia gandhi was seen as wooden and uncharismatic. she remained an unknown factor to all but the inner circle of her party. her views on any aspect of policy were unknown. she had seldom showed initiative on any issue, could not handle a press conference and rarely departed from scripted performances. she however remained a major crowdpuller, cynics attributing it more to curiosity.

the 2004 elections and her "renunciation" of the prime ministership saw her emerge as a larger-than-life figure. her public speaking has steadily improved over the years and she began to give a series of carefully set up interviews to the indian media. she consciously tries to emulate indira gandhi's style and walk, and attempts to connect with people over the heads of intermediaries. she is quick to reach calamity struck areas, and speak up for the "common man" against her own government. her interventions on the petroleum hike, the jessica lal murder case and the anti dalit violence in maharastra have been critical. 

she is a careful strategist who relies on the opinion of expert committees. she was instrucent in setting up the national advisory council and including non-political civil society leaders like jean dreze, aruna roy and madhav chavan.
 
she has also been credited with bringing back a number of women in prominent positions who had been sidelined in the post-rajiv years. her closest advisors include women like sheila dikshit, ambika soni, jayanthi natarajan and renuka choudhary.

family.

despite her father's vehement opposition to her marriage to rajiv, sonia maintains close links with her family in italy. her son, rahul gandhi, was elected to parliament for the amethi constituency in 2004. some consider him to be the natural heir to the reins of the party, and he has been tipped to become a congress leader in the future. priyanka gandhi has not stood for office, though she has worked as a congress campaign manager. she, too, attracts media speculation. sonia and her children are estranged from maneka gandhi, the widow of rajiv's younger brother sanjay gandhi, and her son varun gandhi, who are both members of the opposition bjp.
literary contributions.
sonia gandhi has written two books: rajiv and rajiv's world. in addition, she has also edited freedom's daughter and two alone, two together (two volumes of letters exchanged between jawaharlal nehru and indira gandhi from 1922 to 1964).

trivia.
 sonia gandhi has been described as india's best dressed politican, her trademark cotton handloom sarees being praised by many leading designers. ;

references.
 s. r. et al. bakshi (1998) sonia gandhi, the president of aicc south asia books. isbn 81-7024-988-0 ;
 rupa chaterjee (1999) sonia gandhi: the lady in shadow butala. isbn 81-87277-02-5;
 c. rupa, rupa chaterjee (2000) sonia mystique south asia books. isbn 81-85870-24-1;

external links.
 sonia gandhi comprehensive website;
 indian national congress;
 profile by bbc news dated march 23, 2006;
 sonia gandhi's biography;
 sonia's pechant for economic orthodoxy;
text of sonia gandhi's speech opening the 2003 no-confidence motion against the nda government;


































</doc>
<doc id="2655045" title="culture speculation" nonfiltered="606" processed="595" dbindex="612">
culture speculation is the practice of engaging in or promoting an area or region through either direct investment or relocation in order to attract a pool of culture or cultured individuals.  for example, the return of a jazz club owner to new orleans with the intent of kindling a "jazz renaissance" from the recently displaced musicians would be an example of culture speculation.

 see also .
 culture;
 speculation;
 behavioral finance;
 economics;







</doc>
<doc id="4049612" title="charles ridl" nonfiltered="607" processed="596" dbindex="613">
charles "buzz" ridl was an american college head coach of men's basketball.

ridl's win-loss record at pitt was 97-83 (.539).







references.
;






</doc>
<doc id="4149952" title="moolachel" nonfiltered="608" processed="597" dbindex="614">

moolachel, or moolachy is a village in kanniyakumari district in the southern tip of india. 

the primary occupation in this small village is agriculture. however the spread of education has taken people places from here. there is a csi church, haker memorial csi church at the village centre. a church run creche and a govt. run high school are als there in moolachel. the village also has active self help groups, which has helped a greal deal. people of all religions live here. a channel runs across the village. important areas include saralvilai, kattuvilai, valanvilai and keela moolachel. it is near to padbanathapuram palace. thuckalay is the nearest town. marthandam and nagercoil are the nearby town centres.




google earth location



</doc>
<doc id="4921771" title="bbc soundcrew" nonfiltered="609" processed="598" dbindex="615">
 

the bbc soundcrew was created in the late 1990s to help develop the north american indian/desi music scene to the next level.  created by dj jon-e (johney) and mc loudmouth (gurjit) bbc soundcrew was developed change the desi night life scene and much more.  

based in toronto, canada. bbc soundcrew has made their mark with their own ventures including the top desi dj website in canada (bbcsoundcrew.com), bbc soundcrew gear, successful mix cds and remix albums, their own record label (funky dhol productions) and the only weekly primetime urban desi radio program in north america (desi live on 105.5 fm mondays 8-9pm - hosted by dj jon-e) which is also uploaded to their website. 

bbcsoundcrew.com

 radio .

bbc soundcrew's "desi live" radio program hosted by dj jon-e airs every monday 8-9pm (est) on chry 105.5fm toronto.  shows can also be listened to on their website bbcsoundcrew.com/desilive.html

bbc soundcrew's "desi live" radio program hit the airwaves in december 2004 after the green light was given from the board of directors of chry radio station.  after the approval, "desi live" was given a monday night time slot (8-9pm est) to help add some diversity to monday nights on chry 105.5fm.

the "desi live" radio show is sandwiched between the popular hip hop program "backroad radio" 6-8pm and "everyday i have the blues" the long running jazz/blues show hosted by vince vitacco (9-11pm)

the show is primarily plays bhangra (punjabi) music along with urban indian beats and music from local talent.

the show has taken great strides in its first year with its popularity soaring.  each show is also made available online at bbcsoundcrew.com  so listeners can listen anytime as even the old shows are archived. 

presently, "desi live" is managed and hosted by bbc soundcrew"s dj jon-e (johney brar) and is considered the #1 bhangra radio program in north america.  with  visitors dropping by the studio every week and segments such as "the old skool track of the week, top 5, featured album, use it or lose it (the audience decides if a new debut track should be kept in rotation on the show), and artist interviews it is always worth checking out the program each week.

 charts .
bbc soundcrew's desi live radio program also runs the unofficial canadian bhangra charts which include the top five bhangra/desi tracks for each week, with requests from listeners of the radio show weighing in.
bbcsoundcrew's canadian bhangra charts

 discography .

bbc soundcrew (dj jon-e) - live to air (2000)

bbc soundcrew (dj jon-e) - breakthrough (2002)

various - urban bhangra (bbc soundcrew (dj jon-e) - soun rab di) 

bbc soundcrew (dj jon-e) - desi live the mixx cd vol. 1 (2004)

all albums and singles are made available at bbcsoundcrew.com music







</doc>
<doc id="4148985" title="south african general election, 1920" nonfiltered="610" processed="599" dbindex="616">

the 1920 south african general election was held for the 134 seats in the parliament of the union of south africa. the national party won a non-absolute majority.









</doc>
<doc id="1908072" title="australian country music" nonfiltered="611" processed="600" dbindex="617">

australian country music is a vibrant part of the music of australia. there is a broad range of styles, from bluegrass, to yodelling to folk to the more popular. 

australia has a long tradition of country music, which has developed a style quite distinct from its u.s. counterpart. waltzing matilda, often regarded as australia's unofficial national anthem, is a quintessential australian country song, influenced more by celtic folk ballads than by american country and western music. this strain of australian country music, with lyrics focusing on strictly australian subjects, is generally known as "bush music" or "bush band music".

another, more americanised form of australian country music was pioneered in the 1930s by such recording artists as tex morton. strictly australian country music and bush ballads were popularized by slim dusty, best remembered for his 1957 song "a pub with no beer". in recent years local contemporary country music, featuring much crossover with popular music, has enjoyed considerable popularity in australia.

country music has also been a particularly popular form of musical expression among the australian aboriginal and torres strait islander peoples. 

awards and festivals.
the major celebration of country music in australia is the tamworth country music festival in january each year. 

indigenous country music is in evidence at the deadlys, a celebration of indigenous musicians and their music.

the mildura country music festival celebrates the australian independent country music awards every year.

notable musicians and music groups.
see the list of australian country musicians

musicians.
slim dusty;
james blundell (singer);
adam brand;
troy cassar-daley;
kasey chambers;
beccy cole;
smoky dawson;
natalie howard;
gina jeffries;
lee kernaghan;
anne kirkpatrick (daughter of slim dusty and joy mckean);
joy mckean;
chad morgan;
reg lindsay;
mary schneider;
melinda schneider (daughter of mary schneider);
sara storer;
keith urban;
jeanette wormald;
john williamson;
tracy coster;

musical groups.
bushwackers (band);
the blue heeler band;
the donovans;
women in docs (band);
karma county;
runaway train (band);
southbound (band);

radio and television programs.
reg lindsay country music hour - 1960s;
saturday night country - abc local radio - 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. saturday night ;







</doc>
<doc id="5935264" title="wocb-ca" nonfiltered="612" processed="601" dbindex="618">


this article is about the low-power television station in ohio.;
to read about the first commercial radio station on cape cod, see wxtk;


wocb-ca and wxcb-ca are religious television station in central ohio, broadcasting locally on channels 39 and 42 as affiliates of tbn. founded august 24,1987, the station is owned by central ohio association of christian broadcasters, along with sister-station wgcb-ca.

the station's web site claims that there is an additional wocb-ca transmitter on channel 48 in kenton, ohio, but the fcc shows no record of this.

 external links .
official site;
;
;




</doc>
<doc id="26311" title="works of rudyard kipling" nonfiltered="613" processed="602" dbindex="619">
rudyard kipling's works

books.
(all collections of short stories except as noted)
 departmental ditties (1886, poetry);
 plain tales from the hills (1888);
 soldiers three (1888);
 the story of the gadsbys (1888, novel);
 in black and white (1888);
 under the deodars (1888);
 the phantom rickshaw and other eerie tales (1888);
this collection contained the short story the man who would be king;
 wee willie winkie and other child stories (1888);
this collection contained the short story baa baa, black sheep;
 life's handicap (1891);
 the light that failed (1891, novel);
 american notes (1891, non-fiction);
 barrack-room ballads (1892, poetry);
 the naulahka - a story of west and east (1892, novel);
 many inventions (1893);
 the jungle book (1894);
 "mowgli's brothers" (m) (short story);
 "hunting-song of the seeonee pack" (poem);
 "kaa's hunting" (m) (short story);
 "road-song of the bandar-log" (poem);
 "tiger! tiger!" (m) (short story);
 "mowgli's song that he sang at the council rock when he danced on shere khan's hide" (poem);
 "the white seal" (short story);
 "lukannon" (poem);
 "rikki-tikki-tavi" (short story);
 "darzee's chaunt (sung in honour of rikki-tikki-tavi)" (poem);
 "toomai of the elephants" (short story);
 "shiv and the grasshopper (the song that toomai's mother sang to the baby)" (poem);
 "her majesty's servants" (originally titled "servants of the queen") (short story);
 "parade-song of the camp animals" (poem);
(m) = mowgli story;
 the second jungle book (1895);
 "how fear came" (m) (short story);
 "the law of the jungle" (poem);
 "the miracle of purun bhagat" (short story);
 "a song of kabir" (poem);
 "letting in the jungle" (m) (short story);
 "mowgli's song against people" (poem);
 "the undertakers" (short story);
 "a ripple song" (poem);
 "the king's ankus" (m) (short story);
 "the song of the little hunter" (poem);
 "quiquern" (short story);
 "'angutivaun taina'" (poem);
 "red dog" (m) (short story);
 "chil's song" (poem);
 "the spring running" (m) (short story);
 "the outsong" (poem);
(m) = mowgli story;
 captains courageous (1896, novel);
 the seven seas (1896, poetry);
 the day's work (1898);
 a fleet in being (1898);
 stalky & co. (1899, novel);
 "in ambush";
 "slaves of the lamp, part i";
 "an unsavoury interlude";
 "the impressionists";
 "the moral reformers";
 "a little prep.";
 "the flag of their country";
 "the last term";
 "slaves of the lamp, part ii";
 from sea to sea - letters of travel (1899, non-fiction);
 the five nations (1903, poetry);
 kim (1901, novel);
 just so stories for little children (1902);
 "how the whale got his throat";
 "how the camel got his hump";
 "how the rhinoceros got his skin";
 "how the leopard got his spots";
 "the elephant's child";
 "the sing-song of old man kangaroo";
 "the beginning of the armadillos";
 "how the first letter was written";
 "how the alphabet was made";
 "the crab that played with the sea";
 "the cat that walked by himself";
 "the butterfly that stamped";
 traffics and discoveries (1904);
 puck of pook's hill (1906);
 actions and reactions (1909);
 rewards and fairies (1910);
 a history of england (1911, non-fiction) with charles robert leslie fletcher ;
 songs from books (1912);
 the fringes of the fleet (1915, non-fiction);
 sea warfare (1916, non-fiction);
 a diversity of creatures (1917);
 the years between (1919, poetry);
 land and sea tales for scouts and guides (1923);
 the irish guards in the great war (1923, non-fiction);
 debits and credits (1926);
 a book of words (1928, non-fiction);
 thy servant a dog (1930);
 limits and renewals (1932);
 something of myself (1937, autobiography);
 the muse among the motors (poetry);

poems.

 "the absent-minded beggar";
 "the advertisement";
 "an american";
 "the american rebellion";
 "anchor song";
 "angutivaun taina";
 "the answer";
 "the anvil";
 "arithmetic on the frontier";
 "army headquarters";
 "arterial";
 "as the bell clinks";
 "an astrologer's song";
 "at his execution";
 "azrael's count";
 "back to the army again";
 "the ballad of boh da thone";
 "the ballad of bolivar";
 "a ballad of burial";
 "the ballad of the cars";
 "the ballad of the "clampherdown"";
 "the ballad of east and west";
 "ballad of fisher's boarding-house";
 "a ballad of jakko hill";
 "the ballad of the king's jest";
 "the ballad of the king's mercy";
 "the ballad of minepit shaw";
 "the ballad of the red earl";
 "banquet night";
 "beast and man in india";
 "the bee-boy's song";
 "the bees and flies";
 "before a midnight breaks in storm";
 "the beginner";
 "the beginning";
 "the bells and queen victoria";
 "the bell buoy";
 "the benefactors";
 "belts";
 "the betrothed";
 "big steamers";
 "bill 'awkins";
 "birds of prey march";
 "the birthright";
 "blue roses";
 "bobs";
 "boots";
 "the bother";
 "the boy scouts' patrol song";
 "the braggart";
 "bridge-guard in the karroo";
 "a british-roman song";
 "the broken men";
 "brookland road";
 "brown bess";
 "buddha at kamakura";
 "the burden";
 "the burial";
 "butterflies";
 "by the hoof of the wild goat";
 "cain and abel";
 "the captive";
 "carmen circulare";
 "a carol";
 "cells";
 "the centaurs";
 "certain maxims of hafiz";
 "the changelings";
 "chant-pagan";
 "chapter headings";
 "a charm";
 "the children's song";
 "a child's garden";
 "cholera camp";
 "christmas in india";
 "cities and thrones and powers";
 "the city of sleep";
 "cleared";
 "the coastwise lights";
 "a code of morals";
 "the coiner";
 "cold iron";
 "columns";
 "the comforters";
 "the consolations of memory";
 "contradictions";
 "the conundrum of the workshops";
 "a counting-out song";
 "covenant";
 "the craftsman";
 "cruisers";
 "cuckoo song";
 "the cure";
 "dane-geld";
 "danny deever";
 "darzee's chount";
 "the dawn wind";
 "the day's work";
 "the dead king";
 "a death-bed";
 "the declaration of london";
 "dedication";
 "a dedication";
 "the deep-sea cables";
 "delilah";
 "a departure";
 "the derelict";
 "the destroyers";
 "dinah in heaven";
 "the disciple";
 "divided destinies";
 "doctors";
 "the dove of dacca";
 "the dutch in the medway";
 "the dying chauffeur";
 "eddi's service";
 "edgehill fight";
 "the egg-shell";
 "en-dor";
 "england's answer";
 "the english flag";
 "the 'eathen";
 "evarra and his gods";
 "the expert";
 "the explanation";
 "the explorer";
 "the fabulists";
 "the fairies' siege";
 "the fall of jock gillespie";
 "farewell and adieu...";
 "fastness";
 "the feet of the young men";
 "the female of the species";
 "the fires";
 "the first chantey";
 "the flight";
 "the floods";
 "the flowers";
 "follow me 'ome";
 "for all we have and are";
 "ford o'kabul river";
 "for to admire";
 "the four angels";
 "four-feet";
 "the four points";
 "frankie's trade";
 "the french wars";
 "fuzzy-wuzzy";
 "the galley-slave";
 "gallio's song";
 "gehazi";
 "general joubert";
 "a general summary";
 "gentlement-rankers";
 "gertrude's prayer";
 "gethsemane";
 "giffen's debt";
 "the gift of sea";
 "the gipsy trail";
 "gipsy vans";
 "the glory of the garden";
 "the gods of the copybook headings";
 "the grave of the hundred head";
 "great-heart";
 "the greek national anthem";
 "gunga din";
 "half-ballad of waterval";
 "harp song of the dane women";
 "helen all alone";
 "heriot's ford";
 "the heritage";
 "the holy war";
 "the hour of the angel";
 "the houses";
 "hunting-song of the seeonee pack";
 "hyaenas";
 "hymn before action";
 "hymn to physical pain";
 "the idiot boy";
 "if  ";
 "i keep six honest...";
 "an imperial rescript";
 "in the matter of one compass";
 "in the neolithic age";
 "in springtime";
 "the instructor";
 "the inventor";
 "the irish guards";
 "the jacket";
 "james i";
 "janes marriage";
 "the jester";
 "jubal and tubal cain";
 "the juggler's song";
 "the jungle books";
 "the junk and the dhow";
 "justice";
 "the justice's tale";
 "just so stories";
 "kim";
 "the king";
 "the kingdom";
 "the king's job";
 "the king's task";
 "kitchener's school";
 "the ladies";
 "lady geraldine's hardship";
 "the lament of the border cattle thief";
 "the land";
 "the landau";
 "the last chantey";
 "the last department";
 "the last lap";
 "the last ode";
 "the last of the light brigade";
 "the last rhyme of true thomas";
 "the last suttee";
 "late came the god";
 "the law of the jungle (from the jungle book)";
 "the legend of evil";
 "the legend of the foreign office";
 "the legend of mirth";
 "a legend of truth";
 "l'envoi";
 "l'envoi";
 "l'envoi to "life's handicap";
 "the lesson";
 "lichtenberg";
 "the light that failed";
 "the liner she's a lady";
 "the long trail";
 "loot";
 "lord roberts";
 "the lost legion";
 "the lovers' litany";
 "the love song of har dyal";
 "the lowestoft boat";
 "lukannon";
 "macdonough's song";
 "the man who could write";
 "mandalay";
 "many inventions";
 "the mare's nest";
 "the married man";
 "the "mary gloster";
 "mary, pity women!";
 "mary's son";
 "the masque of plenty";
 "the master-cook";
 "mcandrew's hymn";
 "the men that fought at minden";
 "the merchantmen";
 "merrow down";
 "mesopotamia";
 "mine sweepers";
 "the miracles";
 "the moon of other days";
 "the moral";
 "morning song in the jungle";
 "the mother-lodge";
 "mother o' mine";
 "the mother's son";
 "mowgli's song";
 "mowgli's song against people";
 "mulholland's contract";
 "municipal";
 "my boy jack";
 "my father's chair";
 "my lady's law";
 "my new-cut ashlar";
 "my rival";
 "the native born";
 "a nativity";
 "natural theology";
 "the naulahka";
 "the necessitarian";
 "neighbours";
 "the new nighthood";
 "norman and saxon";
 "the north sea patrol";
 "la nuit blanche";
 "the nursing sister";
 "the old issue";
 "old mother laidinwool";
 "an old song";
 "the oldest song";
 "one viceroy resigns";
 "the only son";
 "oonts";
 "our fathers also";
 "our fathers of old";
 "the outlaws";
 "outsong in the jungle";
 "the overland mail";
 "a pageant of elizabeth";
 "pagett, m.p.";
 "the palace";
 "parade-song of the camp-animals";
 "the peace of dives";
 "the penalty";
 "pharaoh and the sergeant";
 "philadelphia";
 "a pict song";
 "a pilgrim's way";
 "the pink dominoes";
 "the pirates in england";
 "the playmate";
 "the plea of the simla dancers";
 "poceidon's law";
 "poor honest men";
 "the portant";
 "possibilities";
 "the post that fitted";
 "the power of the dog";
 "the prairie";
 "the prayer";
 "the prayer of miriam cohen";
 "prelude";
 "a preface";
 "the press";
 "the pro-consuls";
 "the prodigal son";
 "the progress of the spark";
 "prophets at home";
 "public waste";
 "puck's song";
 "the puzzler";
 "the queen's men";
 "the question";
 "the rabbi's song";
 "rebirth";
 "the recall";
 "a recantation";
 "recessional";
 "rector's memory";
 "the reeds of runnymede";
 "the reformers";
 "the return";
 "the return of the children";
 "the rhyme of the three captains";
 "the rhyme of the three sealers";
 "rimini";
 "rimmon";
 "a ripple song";
 "the ritual of the calling of an engineer";
 "the rivers tale";
 "road-song of the bandar-log";
 "the roman centurion's song";
 "romulus and remus";
 "route marchin'";
 "the rowers";
 "the runes on the weland's sword";
 "the run of downs";
 "the rupaiyat of omar kal'vin";
 "russia to the pacifists";
 "the sacrifice of er-heb";
 "sappers";
 "a school song";
 "screw-guns";
 "the sea and the hills";
 "seal lullaby";
 "the sea-wife";
 "the second voyage";
 "the secret of the machinery";
 "sepulchral";
 "the sergeant's weddin'";
 "a servant when he reigneth";
 "sestina of the tramp-royal";
 "settler";
 "seven watchmen";
 "shillin' a day";
 "sir richard's song";
 "a smuggler's song";
 "snarleyow";
 "soldier an' sailor too";
 "soldier, soldier";
 "the song at cock-crow";
 "a song in storm";
 "the song of the banjo";
 "the song of the cities";
 "the song of the dead";
 "song of diego valdez";
 "the song of the english";
 "song of the fifth river";
 "song of the galley-slaves";
 "a song of kabir";
 "the song of the little hunter";
 "song of the men's side";
 "the song of the old guard";
 "song of the red war-boat";
 "the song of seven cities";
 "song of seventy horses";
 "the song of the sons";
 "a song of travel";
 "a song of the white men";
 "song of the wise children";
 "the song of the women";
 "the songs of the lathes";
 "the sons of martha";
 "south africa";
 "the spies' march";
 "a st. helen lullaby";
 "the story of ung";
 "the story of uriah";
 "the stranger";
 "study of elevation, in indian ink";
 "the survival";
 "sussex";
 "a tale of two cities";
 "tarrant moss";
 "things and the man";
 "thorkild's song";
 "the thousandth man";
 "a three-part song";
 "the threshold";
 "tin fish";
 "to the city of bombay";
 "to the companions";
 "together";
 "to james whitcomb riley";
 "to a lady, persuading her to a car";
 "to motorists";
 "to t. a.";
 "the totem";
 "to thomas atkins";
 "to the true romance";
 "to the unknown goddess";
 "to wolcott balestier";
 "tomlinson";
 "tommy";
 "the tour";
 "the trade";
 "a translation";
 "a tree song";
 "troopin'";
 "the truce of the bear";
 "a truthful song";
 "two kopjes";
 "two months";
 "the two-sided man";
 "ulster";
 "the undertaker's horse";
 "untimely";
 "the vampire";
 "the verdicts";
 "the veterans";
 "the vineyard";
 "the virginity";
 "the wage-slaves";
 "the way through the woods";
 "we and they";
 "the wet litany";
 "what happened";
 "what the people said";
 "when earth's last picture is painted";
 "when the great ark";
 "when the jorney was intented to the city";
 "when 'omer smote...";
 "the widower";
 "white horses";
 "the white man's burden";
 "the widow's party";
 "the widow at windsor";
 "wilful missing";
 "the winners";
 "the wishing-caps";
 "with drake in the tropics";
 "with scindia to delphi";
 "you mustn't swim...";
 "the young british soldier";
 "zion";

external links.
project gutenberg e-texts of kipling's works;
modern english poetry online at bartleby.com (contains "an astrologer's song", "the conundrum of the workshops", "gunga din", and "return");
archive of kipling's works;



</doc>
<doc id="6312536" title="amy chua" nonfiltered="614" processed="603" dbindex="620">
amy chua (born 1962) is the john m. duff, jr. professor of law at yale law school.  she joined the yale faculty in 2001 after teaching at duke law school.  she specializes in the study of international business transactions, law and development, ethnic conflict, and globalization and the law.

chua is the author of the 2003 book, world on fire: how exporting free market democracy breeds ethnic hatred and global instability, which explores the ethnic conflict caused in many societies by disproportionate economic and political influence of "market dominant minorities" and the resulting resentment in the less affluent majority. the book examines how globalization and democratization since 1989 have affected the relationship between market dominant minorities and the wider population. chua was a member of the highly successful chinese filipino minority before emigrating to the united states and has worked for the world bank.  

chua graduated from harvard college in 1984 and harvard law school in 1987.

see also.

dominant minority;

external links.
yale law school profile;
the power of the ethnic minority, the guardian, february 21, 2004, martin jacques review of world on fire;


















</doc>
<doc id="2618960" title="shibataeinae" nonfiltered="615" processed="604" dbindex="621">


shibataeinae is a subtribe of bamboo (tribe bambuseae of the family poaceae). it comprises 9 genera, though the position of temburongia remains uncertain.




</doc>
<doc id="2645453" title="city lights pocket poets series" nonfiltered="616" processed="605" dbindex="622">

the city lights pocket poets series is a series of poetry collections published by lawrence ferlinghetti and city lights books of san francisco since august 1955.  the series is most notable for the publication of allen ginsberg's literary milestone "howl", which lead to an obscenity charge for the publishers that was fought off with the aid of the aclu.  

initially, the books were small, affordable paperbacks with a distinctive black and white cover design.  (this design was borrowed from kenneth patchen's an astonished eye looks out of the air (1945), published by oregon's untide press. ) the paperbacks were the first introduction for many readers to avant-garde poetry.  many of the poets were members of the beat generation and the san francisco renaissance, but the volumes included a diverse array of poets, including authors translated from spanish, german, russian, and dutch. according to ferlinghetti, "from the beginning the aim was to publish across the board, avoiding the provincial and the academic...i had in mind rather an international, dissident, insurgent ferment." 

list of books in the city lights pocket poets series.

 lawrence ferlinghetti, pictures of a gone world, august 1955;
 kenneth rexroth (translator), thirty spanish poems of love and exile, 1956;
 kenneth patchen, poems of humor and protest, 1956;
 allen ginsberg, howl and other poems, 1956;
 marie ponsot, true minds, 1956;
 denise levertov, here and now, 1957;
 william carlos williams, kora in hell : improvisations, 1957;
 gregory corso, gasoline/vestal lady on brattle, 1958;
 jacques prevert, paroles, 1958;
 robert duncan, selected poems, 1959;
 jerome rothenberg (translator), new young german poets, 1959;
 nicanor parra, anti-poems, 1960;
 kenneth patchen, love poems, 1960;
 allen ginsberg, kaddish and other poems, 1961;
 robert nichols, slow newsreel of man riding train, 1962;
 yevgeni yevtuschenko, anselm hollo (translator), red cats, 1962;
 malcolm lowry, selected poems, 1962;
 allen ginsberg, reality sandwiches, 1963;
 frank o'hara, lunch poems, 1964;
 philip lamantia, selected poems 1943-1966, 1967;
 bob kaufman, golden sardine, 1967;
 janine pommy-vega, poems to fernando, 1968;
 allen ginsberg, planet news, 1968;
 charles upton, panic grass, 1968;
 pablo picasso, hunk of skin, 1968;
 robert bly, the teeth-mother naked at last;
 diane diprima, revolutionary letters, 1971;
 jack kerouac, scattered poems, 1971;
 andrei voznesensky, dogalypse, 1972;
 allen ginsberg, the fall of america, ;
 pete winslow, a daisy in the memory of a shark;
 harold norse, hotel nirvana;
 anne waldman, fast speaking woman;
 jack hirschman, lyripol;
 allen ginsberg, mind breaths;
 stefan brecht, poems;
 peter orlovsky, clean asshole poems & smiling vegetable songs, 1978;
 antler, factory;
 philip lamantia, becoming visible, 1981;
 allen ginsberg, plutonian ode 1977-1980, 1982;
 pier paolo pasolini, roman poems;
 scott rollins (editor), nine dutch poets;
 ernesto cardenal, from nicaragua with love;
 antonio porta, kisses from another dream;
 adam conford, animations;
 la loca, adventures on the isle of adolescence;
 vladimir mayakovsky, listen!
 jack kerouac, poems all sizes, 1992;
 daisy zamora, riverbed of memory;
 rosario murillo, angel in the deluge;
 jack kerouac, the scripture of the golden eternity;
 alberto blanco, dawn of the senses ;
 julio cortazar, save twilight: selected poems;
 dino campana, orphic songs ;
 jack hirschman, front lines: selected poems;

references.
  introduction, page i. city lights pocket poets anthology. lawrence ferlinghetti, editor.  city lights books, 1995. (isbn 0-87286-311-5);
 city lights pocket poets - cover story by marcus williamson;



edmond ate the cheese castle

</doc>
<doc id="2198787" title="early trax" nonfiltered="617" processed="606" dbindex="623">


early trax is a cd from industrial metal band ministry.  the album was released in october of 2004.  it contains either released or (previously) unreleased songs from 1981 through to 1984, as well as some remixes of those songs (roughly half of the album by time is made up of remixes of songs also on the album).  the album is thus similar to the 1987 lp twelve inch singles and contains much of the same material; except in cd form.  most of the songs on the album were initially released on the wax trax! label.  as can be expected from ministry's early work, the album features a strong synth pop and new wave flavour in addition to its industrial influences - ministry moved more definitively into the industrial metal genre later into their career (post twitch).

track listing.
 "(everyday is) halloween";
 "halloween (remix)";
 "all day";
 "all day (remix)";
 "nature of love";
 "nature of love (cruelty mix)";
 "nature of outtakes";
 "he's angry";
 "move (original mix)";
 "i'm falling";
 "i'm falling (alternative mix)";
 "overkill";

tracks 8, 9, 11, 12 were previously unreleased;







</doc>
<doc id="1130584" title="adam fleetwood" nonfiltered="618" processed="607" dbindex="624">


adam fleetwood is a british racing driver. he won the british hillclimb championship in both 2003 and 2004 driving a gould, and in the latter year won an unprecedented 28 of the 34 rounds of the series. in the process he broke many outright hill records, and became the first driver to complete the shelsley walsh course in under 24 seconds. however, it must be noted that his main rival, graeme wight jr, did not compete at all (one or two guest appearances in other cars aside) in the second half of the year, as he was awaiting completion of a new car, which did not become available by the end of the season.

before making the step up to the top category of hillclimbing, fleetwood had previously competed with distinction in smaller-engined single-seater cars, setting several class records in the process.

in april 2005, after a single unsuccessful outing at loton park, fleetwood announced that family and other commitments (such as his preparation for a circuit race that summer) would preclude his appearance in the rest of that season's championship, although in the event he did compete in a small number of climbs.











</doc>
<doc id="2115793" title="wtic (am)" nonfiltered="619" processed="608" dbindex="625">


wtic is a 50,000-watt am radio station operating out of hartford, connecticut, broadcasting news and talk radio. its signal, located at 1080 khz, can be picked up throughout southern new england by day and over several states as well as parts of canada by night. it is currently operated by cbs radio.

wtic, a class a station on a clear channel, is known for its historic time tone, which is a broadcast of the morse code letter "v" every hour on the hour since 1943. this makes it one of the oldest continuously broadcasting radio time tones in the world. wtic employs a gps master clock system that fires the custom-built time-tone generator a fraction of a second before the top of the hour, timed such that the final tone of the sequence occurs precisely on the hour, and listeners have been setting their watches to wtic for many years. the notes of the sequence were pitched to mimic the famous opening sequence of beethoven's fifth symphony, whose "short-short-short-long" rhythm matches that of the morse code letter "v". the morse code letter "v" for victory was selected as it was during the height of wwii.

originally founded in 1925 and transmitting on 500 watts for the first 4 years (the 1929 program announcing the retirement of the transmitter is not only known to survive, but also available online), wtic began 50,000 watt operation on august 2 1929 making it one of the very first few stations in the world to achieve that power level.  the transmitter, affectionately referred to as "old number one" was the very first 50,000 watt transmitter ever manufactured by rca and has serial number 001. this rca 50 transmitter was the first high power commercial transmitter to use 100-kilowatt tubes, the first to use mercury-vapor type rectifiers throughout, and the first capable of true 100 percent modulation of its full rated 50-kilowatt carrier output.

perhaps wtic's best-known personality was bob steele, who started with the station in 1936 and stayed with wtic for his entire sixty-six year career, ending only with his death on december 6, 2002 at the age of 91.  steele continued to broadcast a monday-friday morning show for wtic well into his seventies; by the time of his last broadcast in november 2002, he was only heard on the first saturday morning of every month.  despite wtic's various format changes over the years, steele's show (which featured musical standards, novelty songs, silly jokes, and a regular "word of the day" segment - even long after wtic itself had abandoned music for a focus on news/talk) remained virtually unchanged throughout its entire history, making it perhaps the longest-running radio program in history to have never undergone a significant format change.

wtic's call letters stand for the station's original owners, the travelers insurance corporation; however, the station no longer has any affiliation with that company.

external links.
wtic.com;
northeast airchecks, with an aircheck of their switch to 50,000 watts in 1929;
goldenage-wtic.info in the late 1960's, with declining listenership at night, wtic management decided that there was a market for long-form shows that could be packaged and sold to sponsors. two of those shows were "the golden age of radio" and "a one night stand with the big bands." they were broadcast monthly through the mid 1970's, and can be heard here, thanks to a project created by former wtic personality, dick bertel, and former wtic engineer, bob scherago.
wtic alumni website a site that was created by bill clede and carried on by david kaplan featuring information and trivia about the old wtic am/fm/tv before its sale by the travelers in 1974.











</doc>
<doc id="1445001" title="r-27 (missile)" nonfiltered="620" processed="609" dbindex="626">
see r27 (airship) for the british rigid airship commissioned in june 1918.;

the r-27 was a submarine-launched ballistic missile developed by the soviet union and employed by the soviet navy from 1968 through 1988.  nato assigned the missile the reporting name ss-n-6 serb while in the ussr, it was given the grau index 4k10.

variants.
r-27.
total mass: 14.200 kg;
diameter: 1.50 m;
total length: 8.89 m;
span: 1.50 m;
payload: 650 kg;
warhead: single nuclear: 1.0 mt;
maximum range: 2400 km;
cep: 1.9 km;
launch platform: project 667a submarines;

r-27u.
total mass: 14.200 kg;
diameter: 1.50 m;
total length: 8.89 m;
span: 1.50 m;
payload: 650 kg;
warhead: 3 : 200 kt;
maximum range: 3,000 km;
cep: 1.3 km;
launch platform: project 667au submarines;

 operator .

 :  the soviet navy was the only operator of the r-27.

external links.
;
r-27;











</doc>
<doc id="1996335" title="treamcast" nonfiltered="621" processed="610" dbindex="627">


treamcast is a third-party developed dreamcast clone from china. this small system with its fold-down display resembled the revised playstation. the treamcast can read cd-rs and play mp3s and vcds. it also contains pirated dreamcast firmware, enabling it to play dreamcast games. sega accused the company of copyright violations and was able to halt production of the system.

because of its pirated firmware, the treamcast can play all international games.  also, despite its origins in hong kong, the treamcast houses an american power supply.  it will also take original dreamcast controllers, 3rd party controllers, and the unique controllers which come with it.

the screen is a modified playstation screen manufactured onto a miniaturized dreamcast body.

it is not available direct from hong kong any more, but can most likely be found on ebay for around $150 - $160.

their newest edition of the treamcast sells for $169.99 and will also have the same features as previous versions (playing mp3 music, playing vcd movies, and being able to play games of all regions). it will come in a black casing. it will house the same display, but this time will come with the original dreamcast controller for comfortable playing.










</doc>
<doc id="6973484" title="punta la marmora" nonfiltered="622" processed="611" dbindex="628">


punta la marmora (sardinian: perdas caprias) is the highest mountain in the sardinia, italy. it is located in the nuoro province.

 external links .
 peakbagger;









</doc>
<doc id="7780345" title="aggregate expenditures model" nonfiltered="623" processed="612" dbindex="629">
in economics the aggregate expenditures model is used to predict future gdp growth. in the model gdp is compared to aggregate expenditures to find a gdp equilibrium. according to the model gdp will always tend towards equilibrium. the 45o line represents all the points at which neither a condition of savings or dissavings exists. the point at which the aggregate expenditures function intersects the 45o line is the equilibrium point where aggregate income equals consumption plus investment. 


 problems with model .
the aggregate expenditures model presumes price doesn't change. in the real world price does change. as such we look to aggregate demand and aggregate supply in the ad-as model as a more accurate and complete model to predict gdp. 





</doc>
<doc id="762039" title="charles norrie, 1st baron norrie" nonfiltered="624" processed="613" dbindex="630">
 

lieutenant general charles willoughby moke norrie, 1st baron norrie, gcmg, gcvo, cb, dso, mc (september 26, 1893 1977) was a british army general during world war ii. after the war he was an australian-new zealand political figure. he served as the governor of south australia between 1944 and 1952. he then served as the governor-general of new zealand between 1952 and 1957. he was created a peer as baron norrie, of wellington in the dominion of new zealand and of upton in the county of gloucester, in 1957.

during world war ii norrie served as commander of 1st armoured brigade, inspector of the royal armoured corps, goc 1st armoured division before finally seeing action as goc xxx corps. he commanded xxx corps during operation crusader with some success. later he was criticised for his "cavalry" approach to armoured warfare and returned to britain prior to the second battle of el alamein to be appointed commander of the royal armoured corps.

external links.
1966 encyclopaedia of new zealand;
official biography (government house, wellington);
summary of military career;
the arms of lord norrie;

reference.
the biographical dictionary of british generals of the second world war, nick smart. isbn 1-84415-049-6;




























</doc>
<doc id="5120119" title="tom mcmillan (baseball player)" nonfiltered="625" processed="614" dbindex="631">
thomas erwin mcmillan (born september 13, 1951, in richmond, virginia) was a major league baseball shortstop.  he is an alumnus of jacksonville university.  

drafted by the cleveland indians in the 2nd round of the 1973 mlb amateur draft, mcmillan would make his major league baseball debut with the seattle mariners on september 17, 1977, and appear in his final game on september 21, 1977.

mcmillan was a member of the inaugural seattle mariners team that began playing in 1977.

teams
 seattle mariners:  1977;

external links.
page at baseball reference;









</doc>
<doc id="1568456" title="font-management program" nonfiltered="626" processed="615" dbindex="632">
font-management programs are a class of computer utility software that allows the user to activate or deactive fonts on a computer.

the operating systems of windows pc and macintosh computers manage fonts, which are always active and available to all programs that use or display text. 

graphic designers and others may install numerous fonts on their computers. keeping thousands of fonts active at once can slow down the computer's performance and potentially cause other problems, such as font corruption. a corrupt font can cause a variety of operating problems on a computer.

font management programs allow users to activate only the fonts they need for any particular project. users can also create and activate sets of fonts for specific projects. most programs can automatically activate fonts when a particular project is opened in the program used to create it. if the user has more than one font of the same name, the suitcase font manager uses a technology called fontsense to determine which font was actually used in the document. many foundries have issued fonts of the same name, such as baskerville or garamond. fontsense uses additional font data, including kerning and metrics to determine the correct font.

some programs like morrison softdesign fontdoctor can also check font collections for damaged or corrupted fonts and diagnose other font problems. many can show previews of fonts and print out font samples, or allow the user to purchase and download fonts they don't have.

examples of commercial font management programs on the apple macintosh platform include extensis suitcase, linotype fontexplorer x,  adobe type manager deluxe, alsoft masterjuggler, and fontagent pro. examples of font managers on the windows platform include high-logic maintype, typograf, font xplorer and x-fonter.




</doc>
<doc id="539602" title="state organisation of the ottoman empire" nonfiltered="627" processed="616" dbindex="633">

the ottoman empire developed a highly advanced organisation of state over the centuries. even though it had a very centralized government with the sultan as the supreme ruler, it had an effective control of its provinces and citizens, as well as its officials.


the system was very professional. wealth and rank wasn't necessarily something one inherited, rather it had to be earned. positions were perceived as titles such as viziers and a as. military service was a key to advancement in the hierarchy.

imperial governance.

with the expansion of the empire, the need for more systematic administrative organization arose.  over time a dual system of military ("central system") and civil administration ("provincial governing") developed a kind of separation of powers with most higher executive functions carried out by the military authorities and judicial and basic administration duties carried out by civil authorities.  outside this system were various types of vassal and tributary states.  most of the areas ruled by the ottomans were explicitly mentioned in the official full style of the sultan, including various lofty titles adopted to emphasize imperial rank and show the empire as being "successor-in-law" to conquered states. 

the empire was divided on vilayets. each vilayet the governors were assigned to the each vilayet. the idea of vilayet originated from the seljuk vassal state (u\e7 beyli i) in central anatolia, the empire over the years became an amalgamation of pre-existing polities, the anatolian beyliks, brought under the sway of the ruling house of osman.  

central system (military administration).
the central system was composed of sultan and his own people (book keepers, etc) under what was known as "house of osman". the house of osman was advised by divan. divan was composed of grandvizer and ruling class (nobles). the ruling class was called the askeri, including the noblemen, court officials, military officers and the religious class called the ulema. 

divan, with time become very powerful and after the murat iv, sultans begin not to join to the sessions.

 house of osman .

the ottomans did not seem to have a hereditary system based on primogeniture (crown passes to the eldest son) or seniority (crown passes to the next oldest brother). the crown typically passed to the son of a sultan, but the hereditary system changed often and was inconsistently applied.

the divan.

though the sultan was the sublime monarch he had a number of advisors and ministers. the most powerful of these were the viziers of the divan, led by the grand vizier. the divan was a council where the viziers met and debated the politics of the empire. it was the grand vizier's duty to inform the sultan of the opinion of the divan. the sultan often took his vizier's advices in consideration, but he by no means had to obey the divan. sometimes the sultan called a divan meeting himself if he had something important to inform his viziers of, such as coming war. the viziers then carried out his orders. the divan consisted of three viziers in the 14th century and eleven in the 17th century, four of them served as viziers of the dome, the most important ministers next to the grand vizier. sometimes the commander (a a) of the janissaries attended at the divan meetings as well.

political elite .



the viziers were the core of the nobles, though they were really servants of the sultan. in addition, the viziers had their own advisers called the kahya. other noble families inhabited istanbul and often visited the court during parties or ceremonies. the clergy was another prominent part of the court. the muftis and imams were always present at religious ceremonies, which were plentiful. the m\fcteferrika was a sort of young nobleman's club, where the sons of effendis, pa as and other notables got together. they often accompanied the sultan when he went out hunting.

 administrative elite .

the minister (government) (tr: naz r) had not as much influence over the sultans as the viziers, but controlled the ministry (government department) (tr: nezareti). the ministries and departments were important parts of the ottoman bureaucracy. the ministries also supplied the viziers with whatever information they required. 

the most important minister was the minister of justice, the adliye naz r , whose ministry included the civil judges (kadis) and the military judges (kadiaskers or kaziaskers) who were the highest judicial authority of the empire after the seyhulislam, the supreme religious leader of the ulema. other officials within a ministry included the keth\fcdar, a representative of the ministry and assistant to the minister with several clerks (kalfas) under him. the kalfas did all the paper-work in the ottoman bureaucracy.

 military elite .

for each military corps there was a naz r who had the administrative power. under him was the a a who had the ceremonial command of the corps.
there was also a corps of palace guards (zuluflu baltaci) under the command of the swordmaster and palace gardeners (bostanc ) who also were responsible for the sultan's luxury boat. those taught in european etiquette and language (mainly french) served as yasak\e7i, guards for foreign ambassadors. also stationed near the palace was the six divisions of cavalry (alt  b\f6l\fck) and, of course, the janissaries.

governor (beys).

the hereditary rulers of these territories were known as beys and many of the continued to rule under the suzerainty of the ottoman sultans.  the term bey came to be applied not only to these former rulers but also to new governors appointed where the local leadership had been eliminated.

 the imperial government.

the imperial government was added during the second constitutional era. the committee of union and progress (cup) was in the power; most of the ministers were from cup.

 provincial governing (civil administration).
townspeople, villagers and farmers formed a lower class called the reaya. this class had nothing to do with what religion one belonged to but rather meant anyone who was not askeri. nobles sometimes used the word turk for muslim farmers and villagers, referring to them as ignorant.

civil and judicial administration was carried out under a separate parallel system of small municipal or rural units called kazas administered by a qadi (kad ).  kazas in turn were subdivided into nahiyas.  the qadis came from the ulema and represent the legal authority of the sultan. the civil system was considered a check on the military system since beys (who represented executive authority) could not carry out punishment without a sentence for a qadi.  likewiese, qadis were not permitted to personally effect punishment.  in the areas of sharia and kanun law, qadis were responsible directly to the sultan.

millets (central representation).

the community governing was a hierarchical system with the elders as the smallest group which forms the millets. beginning with tanzimat millets have their own selected councils, which was another layer between the patriarchs and elders.

under ottoman rule the major religious groups were allowed to establish their own self-governing communities, called millets, each retaining its own religious laws, traditions, and language under the general protection of the sultan. millets were led by religious chiefs, who served as secular as well as religious leaders and thus had a substantial interest in the continuation of ottoman rule.

elders (local representation).

on a deeply local level cities and villages belonging to a millet were allowed to keep their power micro-structures that would signify a level of "autonomy", e.g. the greek villages and cities were up to a point being steered by councils of the "elder (religious)" (dimogerontes, gerontes, prokritoi) that had the responsibility of representing their people to the region's pasha like it was happening during the late byzantine years. 

quite interesting is the fact that in several well economically established areas this prokritoi class would eventually become a type of nobility. in athens for example the gerousia (council of the elders) became a closed club occupied mostly by 10-13 houses (e.g. the houses of benizelos, palaiologos, gerontas). mehmed ii used the conquering army to restore the physical structure of the city. old buildings were repaired, streets, aqueducts, and bridges were constructed, sanitary facilities were modernized, and a vast supply system was established to provide for the city's inhabitants.

 vassal states .
the ottoman empire had many vassal states of varying size attached to it. vassals paid taxes to the sultan and often contributed with troops in various ottoman military campaigns. many of the imperial provinces were vassal states before being reduced to provinces. a vassal state that never became a province was the khanate of crimea in the region around crimea, north of black sea - it would fall to russia instead (1774-83; later in modern ukraine).
 a special case was the greek orthodox 'monastic republic' of mount athos, were istanbul was only represented by an aga (officer) as its agent in karyaes.
as the empire weakened militarily, it would inevitably lose control through foreign victories (russia took large chunks of territory; the christian empires helped ever more parts of the balkans secede, often after a vassalic stage, such as the hospodars) but also see real control over some if its (mainly remote) provinces slip away to a state of little more than formal sovereignty over tributary, de facto autonomous states.
this happened in north africa: the beys/deys of tunis and algiers established themselves as 'regencies' and even egypt went its own way under its great khedive mohammed ali - they would in turn be subjected to european colonial dominance (in name only protectorate) of france and britain.

 references .
encyclopaedia britannica 2006;







</doc>
<doc id="7670363" title="paul oscher" nonfiltered="628" processed="617" dbindex="634">
paul oscher (born april 5, 1950)  is an american blues singer, songwriter, and instrumentalist. 

background.
oscher was born in brooklyn, new york. he is married to pulitzer prize-winning playwright suzan-lori parks.

career.
his career as a musician began at the age of fifteen when he played for the musician, little jimmy mae.

oscher was a member of the muddy waters blues band from 1967-1972. 

awards.
2006 blues music awards:
"acoustic artist of the year"  ;
"acoustic album of the year";

external links.
 official website.
 biography from hohnerusa;
biography from bluesplanet;
biography from mannishboys;
;









</doc>
<doc id="9355452" title="risby, east riding of yorkshire" nonfiltered="629" processed="618" dbindex="635">
risby is a hamlet in the east riding of yorkshire, england. it is situated approximately 3  miles south west of beverley and lies a mile west of the a164 road.

it forms part of the civil parish of rowley.






</doc>
<doc id="4368504" title="superliga espa\f1ola de hockey hielo" nonfiltered="630" processed="619" dbindex="636">
superliga espa\f1ola de hockey hielo or leh is the spanish national league of ice hockey.

teams for 2005/2006 season.
ch vielha;
ch txuri-urdi\f1;
fc barcelona;
ch madrid;
horcona ch jaca;
cg puigcerd\e0;
majadahonda hc;

external links.
real federaci\f3n espa\f1ola de deportes de invierno ;





</doc>
<doc id="2777735" title="list of romantic leads with actress older" nonfiltered="631" processed="620" dbindex="637">
the romantic leads in hollywood films are usually the same age, or sometimes an actress is paired with an older man.  older actresses have charged age discrimination, or ageism, in casting.  occasionally, movies are made where the actress is older than her leading man.  this is a list of those movies, along with the age differential and the stars' names.

interestingly, some movies about a may-december romance, such as the graduate, have less age difference than movies where age-blind casting is used such as bull durham.

the actress might be older because the leads are a real-life couple such as goldie hawn/kurt russell, susan sarandon/tim robbins, courteney cox/david arquette, june carter cash/johnny cash, kim basinger/alec baldwin and lucille ball/desi arnaz or because she is accepting roles for which she has outgrown such as doris day, audrey hepburn and marlene dietrich.

movies with romantic leads where actress is older than the actor.


see also.
 list of films featuring may-december romances;
 age disparity in sexual relationships;

external link.
 real life couples with the woman being oldest;




</doc>
<doc id="16402" title="jan van goyen" nonfiltered="632" processed="621" dbindex="638">

jan van goyen (january 13, 1596, leiden - april 27, 1656, the hague) was a dutch landscape painter.

biography.
like many dutch painters of his time, jan van goyen studied art in the town of haarlem. at age 35, he established a permanent studio at den haag (the hague). 

typically, a dutch painter of the 17th century (also known as the dutch golden age) will fall into one of four categories, a painter of portraits, landscapes, still-lifes, or genre.  dutch painting was highly specialized and rarely could an artist hope to achieve greatness in more than one area in a lifetime of painting. jan van goyen would be classified primarily as a landscape artist with an eye for the genre subjects of everyday life. he painted many of the canals in and around den haag as well as the villages surrounding countryside of delft, rotterdam, leiden, and gouda.

van goyen's technique.

jan van goyen would begin a painting using a support primarily of thin oak wood. 

to this panel, he would scrub on several layers of a thin animal hide glue. 

then with a blade, scrape over the entire surface a thin layer of tinted white lead to act as a ground and to fill the low areas of the panel. the ground was tinted light brown, sometimes reddish, or yellow ocher in colour. 

next, van goyen would loosely and very rapidly sketch out the scene to be painted with pen and ink without going into the small details of his subject. this walnut ink drawing can be clearly seen in some of the thinly painted areas of his work. for a guide, he would have turned to a detailed drawing. the scene would have been drawn from life outdoors and then kept in the studio as reference material. drawings by artists of the time were rarely works of art in their own right as they are viewed today. 

on his palette he would grind out a colour collection of neutral grays, umbers, ocher and earthen greens that looked like they were pulled from the very soil he painted. a varnish oil medium was used as vehicle to grind his powered pigments into paint and then used to help apply thin layers of paint which he could easily blend. 

the dark areas of the painting were kept very thin and transparent with generous amounts of the oil medium. the light striking the painting in these sections would be lost and absorbed into the painting ground. the lighter areas of the picture were treated heavier and opaque with a generous amount of white lead mixed into the paint.  light falling on the painting in a light section is reflected back at the viewer. 

the effect is a startling realism and three-dimensional quality. the surface of a finished painting resembles a fluid supple mousse, masterfully whipped and modeled with the brush. when looking at a van goyen painting one can almost feel the wind in the trees laced with the scent of a bluest smoke lingering above a rustic cottage, or taste the salted air near the seashore he painted.

external links.
view of dordrecht 1644;


other popular dutch landscape painters of the sixteenth and seventeenth century.

jacob van ruisdael ;
aelbert cuyp;
hendrick avercamp;
ludolf backhuysen;
meindert hobbema;
aert van der neer;














</doc>
<doc id="9082676" title="porter, texas" nonfiltered="633" processed="622" dbindex="639">
porter is an unincorporated area in montgomery county, texas. in 1980 population reached estimated 8000. it grew rapidly in the 1980s, and continues to grow even more rapidly because of its proximity to the houston, texas metropolitan area. more detailed information can be found at the of texas online. schools in porter are operated by the caney independent school district.


----

 origins .

porter was founded in the late 1800s and was the county seat from 1896 to 1915. a post office operated there from 1892 through the 1930s. by 1914 the population of porter was 150, and the town had two general stores, a lumber company, and a livestock breeder. porter by 1940 had four businesses and a population estimated at 100, rising to 150 by the early 1940s.

notable citizens.

robert l. crippen (captain, usn, ret.),  astronaut (former)
brian martinez, c.j.e., educator/journalist


external links.

</doc>
<doc id="6120455" title="upton noble, somerset" nonfiltered="634" processed="623" dbindex="640">
upton noble, somerset, united kingdom is a location south of wanstrow and east of batcombe.
sources.
(google maps)


</doc>
<doc id="1531151" title="timothy's world coffee" nonfiltered="635" processed="624" dbindex="641">



timothy's world coffee (a.k.a. timothy's) is a large canadian chain of coffeeshops.

origin and background.
timothy's is the third-largest canadian-owned chain of caf\e9s, behind tim horton's and second cup. it was founded in 1975 as a retailer of premium roasted coffee beans by timothy snelgrove and his wife teresa snelgrove. the company was originated as a business-school project snelgrove did while studying at the university of western ontario. as the company expanded, it evolved its retail offering to include brewed coffee, now the mainstay of the business. 

timothy's is differentiated from second cup in that it does its own coffee-bean buying and roasting in its own plant in toronto. for this reason the company offers a freshness guarantee and other supporting company policies.

management.

the current chairperson of the company, becky mckinnon, originally joined timothy's in a support role. in 1985, the mckinnon family acquired ownership and control from tim snelgrove and becky became president. 

becky's husband ian, who had a career in the investment industry, spent many years in the chairman role while becky was president and ceo, but after ian's retirement from his investment career, he has asserted operating control, swapped roles with becky and is the company's president today. 

expansion into the united states.

in the late 1990s, timothy's expanded into the united states, concentrating in new york city. other stores were located in boston, washington, and philadelphia. at one point, it was new york city's second-largest coffeehouse chain, after starbucks. the us business never performed well. after 9/11 the company closed its american operations and the company refocused on the canadian market. 

current business.

timothy's has since purchased the existing grabbajabba stores in canada. it later acquired the mmmuffins and michel's baguette retail businesses. today, the company operates some 140 canadian stores under the timothy's name. timothy's also operates a wholesale coffee business, supplies office coffee service companies, packages coffee in k-cups for keurig home and office brewers, and has a limited distribution program in convenience stores, sports clubs and similar venues.

the mckinnons are reported to have been seeking a buyer for the company. in the last several years, there has been very high turnover in management staff, and quite limited investment in new store locations, as the company drives toward increased operating profitability. same-store sales growth is perceived to have flattened. franchisee relations have become strained, as the company's priorities have shifted from system development to franchisor profitability, and as a result of the very different management styles of the two principals. industry observers expect a transition in ownership and a renewed focus on long-term success, since the company does control quite a number of strong retail locations.

external link.

timothy's world coffee;







</doc>
<doc id="2074025" title="arpa - aerolineas paraguayas" nonfiltered="636" processed="625" dbindex="642">
arpa - aerol\edneas paraguayas is an airline based in asunci\f3n, paraguay. it operates domestic services. 

 code data .

iata code: a8;
icao code: pay;
callsign: arpa;

 history .

the airline started operations on 14 may 1995. it is wholly owned by tam linhas aereas from brazil.

 services .

arpa operates services from lima to ciudad del este and pedro caballero (at january 2005).

 fleet .

the arpa fleet consists of the following aircraft (at january 2005), leased from its parent company:

1 cessna 208a caravan i;
2 cessna 208b grand caravan;







</doc>
<doc id="2554320" title="sam mitchell (basketball)" nonfiltered="637" processed="626" dbindex="643">
samuel e. mitchell, jr. (born september 2 1963 in columbus, georgia) is a former professional basketball player and current head coach of the toronto raptors of the national basketball association.

the 6'6", 210lb small forward was drafted out of mercer university with the seventh pick of the third round (54th overall) by the houston rockets in the 1985 nba draft, but did not commence play in the league until joining 1989 expansion team, the minnesota timberwolves, in their inaugural season. prior to his nba career, he spent three seasons in the continental basketball association and in the french basketball league team of montpellier (head coach pierre galle) for an additional two seasons. after that, he spent three seasons with the wolves until september 8 1992 when he was traded along with point guard pooh richardson to the indiana pacers in exchange for small forward chuck person and point guard micheal williams. there he spent another three seasons before returning to minnesota for the remainder of his playing career until retiring in 2002. 

during his playing days, he scored a career-high 37 points against the philadelphia 76ers on february 3 1991.

he returned to the nba later that year as an assistant coach with the milwaukee bucks for two seasons until 2004, when he briefly became a part of the expansion charlotte bobcats as their top assistant coach, until moving on to the toronto raptors when he was named as the sixth head coach in raptors history after incumbent kevin o'neill was fired.

he is married and has four children.

he was named the coach of the month in january 2007 for his effort bringing the toronto raptors back to .500 and leading the atlantic division. 

coaching record.

1 as of february 9, 2007;






external links.
profile as a player;
profile as a coach;















</doc>
<doc id="2022387" title="paul manz" nonfiltered="638" processed="627" dbindex="644">
paul manz born 1919, is an american composer for choir and organ. his most famous choral work is the advent motet e'en so, lord jesus, quickly come, which has been performed at nine lessons and carols at king's college, cambridge. his most famous organ work is aria. paul manz has long served the church as recitalist, composer, teacher and leader in worship. he is cantor emeritus at the evangelical lutheran church of saint luke, chicago, illinois; as well as cantor emeritus of mount olive lutheran church in minneapolis, minnesota. he is the director of the newly established paul manz institute of church music, and is professor emeritus of church music at christ seminary seminex at the lutheran school of theology in chicago.

biography.


a fulbright grant enabled him to study with flor peeters in belgium and helmut walcha in germany. the belgian government invited him to be the official united states representative in ceremonies honoring flor peeters on his 80th birthday and his 60th year as titular organist of the cathedral of saint rombout in mechelen, belgium. at that tme, flor peeters referred to his former student as  my spiritual son. 

paul manz has concertized extensively in north america. he has appeared at the lincoln center in new york city, with the national symphony orchestra at the kennedy center in washington, d.c., with the chicago symphony orchestra at orchestra hall and with the minnesota orchestra under the direction of charles dutoit, leonard slatkin, and henry charles smith. in addition, he has played recitals in churches and cathedrals here and abroad. he is in great demand for his hymn festivals, which are his legacy as a church musician. he has conducted many organ clinics, participated in liturgical seminars and appeared as lecturer and recitalist at the regional and national conventions of the american guild of organists.

the esteem and respect with which paul manz is regarded can be seen in the many honors he has received. he has twice been named one of the  ten most influential lutherans.  he has served as national councilor of the american guild of organists and is listed as one of the  101 most notable organists of the 20th century.  he is the recipient of many honorary doctorates and awards. northwestern university, his alma mater, presented him with the prestigious  alumni merit award;.  the lutheran school of theology chicago presented him with the distinguished  confessor of christ award;  the chicago bible society presented him with the  gutenberg award; and the lutheran institute of washington, dc honored him with the first  wittenberg arts award.  at a convention of the association of lutheran church musicians, his colleagues honored him for his work in the church. a large gathering in minneapolis, minnesota held a  paul manz celebration: honoring the life of a church musician  where substantial gifts were given to the ruth and paul manz scholarship for church musicians.

trinity seminary of columbus, ohio bestowed the  joseph sittler award for theological leadership  and among his many honorary doctorates is the doctor of sacred music degree from valparaiso university, and most recently, the doctor of music degree from st. olaf college, northfield, minnesota.

as a performer, manz is most famous for his celebrated hymn festivals. instead of playing traditional organ recitals, manz generally leads a "festival" of hymns from the organ, in which he introduces each hymn with one of his famously creative organ improvisations based on the hymn tune in question. the congregation then sings the hymn with his accompaniment. sometimes he plays an improvisation between each sung stanza, as with his well-known variations on the tune, st. anne, sung to the isaac watts text "oh god, our help in ages past" with which he traditionally ends each festival. many volumes of these improvisations have been written out and published and are played by church organists throughout the world.

selected works.
his musical compositions are internationally known. his organ works are extensively used in worship services, recitals and in teaching. his choral music is widely used by church and college choirs here and abroad. his motet,  e en so, lord jesus, quickly come  is regarded as a classic and has been frequently recorded here and abroad. his life and works is the subject of a doctoral dissertation which details his career spanning more than fifty years and analyzes his organ works.

external links.

morningstar music publishers;









</doc>
<doc id="695215" title="horizon problem" nonfiltered="639" processed="628" dbindex="645">
this article is about the astronomical "horizon problem". for the problem relating to computers, see horizon problem in computer programs.;


the horizon problem is a problem with the standard cosmological model of the big bang which was identified in the 1970s. it points out that different regions of the universe have not "contacted" each other due to the great distances between them, but nevertheless they have the same temperature and other physical properties. this should not be possible, given that the exchange of information (or energy, heat, etc.) can only take place at the speed of light. the horizon problem may have been answered by inflationary theory, and is one of the reasons for that theory's formation.

basic concept.

when one looks out into the night sky, distances also correspond to time into the past. a galaxy measured at ten billion light years in distance appears to us as it was ten billion years ago, because the light has taken that long to travel to us. the universe is believed to be about 15 billion years old, so the most distant objects one can possibly see are 15 billion light years away. this distance is known as the "particle horizon".

if one were to look at a galaxy ten billion light years away in one direction, say "west", and another in the opposite direction, "east", the total distance between them is twenty billion light years. this means that the light from the first has not yet reached the second, the fifteen billion years the universe has existed simply isn't long enough. in a more general sense, there are portions of the universe that are visible to us, but invisible to each other, outside each other's respective particle horizons.

in standard physical theories, no information can travel faster than the speed of light. in this context, "information" means "any sort of physical interaction". for instance, heat will naturally flow from a hotter area to a cooler one, and in physics terms this is one example of information exchange. given the example above, the two galaxies in question cannot have shared any sort of information, they are not in "causal contact". one would expect, then, that their physical properties could be different, and more generally, that the universe as a whole would have varying properties in different areas.

contrary to this expectation, the universe is in fact extremely homogeneous. for instance, the cosmic microwave background radiation (cmb), which fills the universe, is almost precisely the same temperature everywhere in the sky, about 2.725 k. the difference in temperature is so slight that it has only recently become possible to develop instruments even capable of measuring it. this presents a serious problem; if the universe started with even slightly different temperatures in different areas, there is simply no way it could have evened itself out to a common temperature by this point in time. quantum physics demands that this difference would actually exist due to the uncertainty principle; there is no way that the universe could have formed with precisely the same properties everywhere, as the uncertainty principle essentially states that there is no way for even the universe to know precisely what those properties are.

the magnitude of this problem is quite large. according to big bang, as the density of the universe dropped while it expanded, it eventually reached a point where photons in the "mix" of particles were no longer immediately impacting matter   they "decoupled" from the plasma and spread out into the universe as a burst of light. this is thought to have occurred about 300,000 years after the big bang, so the volume of any possible information exchange was 300,000 light years across. instead, the entire sky has the same temperature, a volume  times larger.

inflation.
 
inflationary theory allows for a solution to the problem (along with several others such as the flatness problem) by positing a short  second period of exponential expansion (dubbed "inflation") within the first minute or so of the history of the universe. during inflation, the universe would have increased in size by an enormous factor.

if correct, inflation solves the horizon problem by suggesting that prior to the inflationary period the entire universe was causally connected, and it was during this period that the physical properties evened out. inflation then expanded it rapidly, freezing in these properties all over the sky; at this point the universe would be forced to be almost perfectly homogeneous, as the information needed to change it from that state was no longer casually connected. in the modern era distant areas in the sky appear to be unconnected causally, but in fact were much closer together in the past.

one consequence of cosmic inflation is that the anisotropies in the big bang are reduced but not entirely eliminated. differences in the temperature of the cosmic background are smoothed by cosmic inflation, but they still exist. the theory predicts a spectrum for the anisotropies in the microwave background which is mostly consistent with observations from wmap and cobe.

references.









</doc>
<doc id="5999860" title="bridgnorth (uk parliament constituency)" nonfiltered="640" processed="629" dbindex="646">

bridgnorth was a constituency represented in the house of commons of the parliament of the united kingdom.
it was founded in 1290 as a borough constituency. it was a constituency of the house of commons of the parliament of england until 1707, then of the parliament of great britain from 1707 to 1800, and of the parliament of the united kingdom from 1801 to 1885. it was represented by two burgesses until 1868, when it was reduced to one member of parliament. it was abolished in 1885.

 boundaries .
 members of parliament .
;

until 1868.


constituency created (1290);



constituency reduced to one member (1868);

1868-1885.

 1868-1870: henry whitmore, ;
 1870-1885: william henry foster, ;

constituency abolished (1885);

 election results .



see also.
list of former united kingdom parliamentary constituencies;
unreformed house of commons;
references.









</doc>
<doc id="6483722" title="races (dungeons & dragons)" nonfiltered="641" processed="630" dbindex="647">
dungeons & dragons (v3.0 and v3.5) has introduced a bewildering array of races. many of them are traditional races from previous publications, versions of the game or various fantasy sources. however, a large number of them (perhaps even a majority) are original creations of wizards of the coast with no relevance outside of the game.

the races can further be separated into three categories.

player character races;
races with levels;
monster races;

while 1st edition dungeons & dragons drew heavily from traditional mythology and tolkien-esque literature, later versions of the game have increasingly created their own mythology and zoology.



</doc>
<doc id="2587187" title="lendonwood gardens" nonfiltered="642" processed="631" dbindex="648">
lendonwood gardens (3 acres) are non-profit botanical gardens located in grove, oklahoma.

the gardens were founded in 1995 by dr. leonard miller, a retired dentist, and consist of a blend of american and japanese gardening techniques. major plantings took about 18 months to complete. in 1997 the gardens became a non-profit organization and are now part of the oklahoma botanical garden system. to be designated a botanical garden, a site must contain labeled plants, be open to the public, and contain at least 225 species.

grassy pathways meander through more than 1,400 different types of plants, including one of the largest collections of chamaecyparis (false cypress) in the united states, the largest collection of rhododendrons in the southwest, 500 varieties of daylilies, 25 varieties of dogwoods, more than 50 bonsai, 75 varieties of japanese maples, and 70 varieties of hostas, as well as a 150-foot stream consisting of nine pools of water, and a koi pond. plants in the american backyard xeriscapetm garden thrive without additional watering and include annuals such as zinnias and marigolds.

 see also .
 list of botanical gardens in the united states;




</doc>
<doc id="2559721" title="john beckwith (composer)" nonfiltered="643" processed="632" dbindex="649">
john beckwith (born march 9, 1927) is a canadian composer, writer, pianist, teacher, and administrator.

born in victoria, british columbia, he studied piano with alberto guerrero at the toronto conservatory of music in 1945. he received a mus.b. in 1947 and a mus.m. in 1961 from the university of toronto. from 1950 to 1951, he studied with nadia boulanger in paris.

he started teaching at in the faculty of music at the university of toronto in 1952. from 1970 to 1977, he was the dean of the faculty. he was founding director of the institute for canadian music at the university of toronto. he retired in 1990.

he has written over 130 compositions covering stage, orchestral, chamber, solo and choral genres.

in 1987, he was made a member of the order of canada.

references.
 ;

external links.
 john beckwith at the canadian encyclopedia;















</doc>
<doc id="7691595" title="terry copley" nonfiltered="644" processed="633" dbindex="650">
terry copley may refer to:
 terence copley, british author;

see also:
 teri copley, american actress;



</doc>
<doc id="4555317" title="cultra railway station" nonfiltered="645" processed="634" dbindex="651">
cultra railway station serves cultra and the ulster folk and transport museum in county down, northern ireland.









</doc>
<doc id="1425446" title="moncton anges bleu" nonfiltered="646" processed="635" dbindex="652">
the moncton anges bleu ("moncton blue angels") are the women's athletic teams that represent universit\e9 de moncton in moncton, new brunswick, canada. the men's teams are known as the moncton aigles bleu.

see also canadian interuniversity sport.

external link.
 universit\e9 de moncton athletics;








</doc>
<doc id="127076" title="hillburn, new york" nonfiltered="647" processed="636" dbindex="653">


hillburn is a village in rockland county, new york, united states. the population was 881 at the 2000 census. 

the village of hillburn, founded in 1893, lies within the town of ramapo. 

geography.

hillburn is located at  (41.124812, -74.165966).

according to the united states census bureau, the village has a total area of 5.8 km\b2 (2.2 mi\b2). 5.8 km\b2 (2.2 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.1 km\b2 (0.04 mi\b2) of it (0.89%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 881 people, 273 households, and 221 families residing in the village. the population density was 152.5/km\b2 (395.5/mi\b2). there were 290 housing units at an average density of 50.2/km\b2 (130.2/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the village was 49.04% white, 11.12% african american, 14.42% native american, 4.31% asian, 0.68% pacific islander, 2.38% from other races, and 18.05% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 5.56% of the population.

there were 273 households out of which 39.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.5% were married couples living together, 24.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 18.7% were non-families. 16.8% of all households were made up of individuals and 5.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 3.23 and the average family size was 3.58.

in the village the population was spread out with 28.4% under the age of 18, 8.5% from 18 to 24, 28.5% from 25 to 44, 20.4% from 45 to 64, and 14.2% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 36 years. for every 100 females there were 81.6 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 78.8 males.

the median income for a household in the village was $54,625, and the median income for a family was $56,875. males had a median income of $36,591 versus $30,000 for females. the per capita income for the village was $17,516. about 10.7% of families and 14.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 27.0% of those under age 18 and 17.3% of those age 65 or over.

history.
1943.
thurgood marshall won a disparity case regarding intergration of the schools of hillburn, 11 years before his landmark case of brown v. board of education, on behalf of the african-american parents. black children who lived in ramapo attended the brook school in hillburn, a wood structure that didn't include a gymnasium, library nor indoor bathrooms. whereas a nearby school attended by white children included a gymnasium, a library and indoor plumbing.  the rockland african diaspora heritage center in pomona, new york has an exhibit which include artifacts and photographs loaned by a student who attended the brook school and who went on to teach english and history.

external links.
hillburn official website;
hillburn fire department;







</doc>
<doc id="5471717" title="phalanx (computer programming quality assurance technique)" nonfiltered="648" processed="637" dbindex="654">
to phalanx means to improve the quality of an existing body of computer programming code by an iterative process of editing the code's documentation, extending the code's test suite and refactoring the code itself on the basis of the documentation and testing.  phalanxing a body of code entails guaranteeing that the documentation constitutes an accurate specification of the code's current, non-deprecated functionality and that a very high proportion of statements in the code is reached ("covered") by the test suite.

phalanx is derived from the phalanx project, a quality assurance project () founded by andy lester in 2003 to improve the quality of code found in extensions to the perl programming language on the comprehensive perl archive network (cpan) ().


</doc>
<doc id="3319810" title="a fishful of dollars" nonfiltered="649" processed="638" dbindex="655">

"a fishful of dollars" is episode six in the first season of futurama. it originally aired in north america on april 27, 1999. this also marks the first appearance of the antagonist mom.

 plot .


after having their dreams taken over by an advertisement, the planet express crew takes a trip to the local shopping mall. trying to buy the product in his dreams, fry realises he is broke. at the same time, bender is caught shoplifting and sent to jail. unable to pay the bail, fry remembers he had a bank account back in the twentieth century. surprisingly his old bank account is still active, and has been accruing interest for the past thousand years, bringing the balance from 93 cents to $4.3 billion. fry goes on a massive spending spree, buying numerous 20th century artifacts, including the last known tin of now-extinct anchovies, which were fished to extinction shortly after dr. zoidberg's people arrived on earth.

mom, famous industrialist and owner of mom's old-fashioned robot oil, wants to secure the anchovies for her own purposes. anchovy oil could be used to permanently lubricate robots, and therefore represent an enormous threat to mom's business interests.

mom's sons walt, larry, and ignar conspire with the head of pamela anderson to steal fry's atm card and pin, which they use to bankrupt fry (fry's pin is the price of a cheese pizza and a large soda at his old job, $10.77, so they reenacted a scene in the year 2000 to find out the price from fry). all of fry's 20th century artifacts are repossessed, except the anchovies, which fry had hidden in his sock.

after mom discovers fry intends to eat the anchovies, she stops interfering. fry covers a pizza with the anchovies, and shares them with the rest of the planet express employees. everyone except fry spits their pizza out in disgust. fry claims that they are an acquired taste. when dr. zoidberg enters the room, he smells a 'heavenly stench' and immediately devours all the remaining anchovy-covered pizza, and goes on a rampage screaming "more! more! more!!"

characters.
characters who make their first appearances in this episode are:
mom;
walt, larry and ignar;
scruffy;

future products.
future products seen in this episode are:
lightspeed briefs;
kelvin clone fragrances;
mom's old fashioned robot oil;
angry norwegian anchovies;

cultural references.

the title references the clint eastwood/sergio leone spaghetti western a fistful of dollars.
when fry purchases his "authentic 20th century apartment", there is an illustrated poster of a woman on the wall. the poster is drawn in a style reminiscent of 1980s pop-artist patrick nagel, most renowned for drawing the cover of the duran duran album, rio.
the song "baby got back" is described as classical music by leela.
fry watches a parody commercial for pepperidge farm.
fry is seen watching an episode of sanford and son, where redd foxx's character, fred g. sanford, is heard saying "esther, you ugly", referring to sanford's constant humiliation of his sister-in-law's profound ugliness (in his eyes).
sometime between fry's freezing and his waking up, pamela anderson apparently won an academy award. it was for the fictitious baywatch: the movie, which was "the first movie filmed entirely in slow motion".
the baywatch movie being filmed entirely in slow motion is parodying the slow motion shots of the cast running up and down the beach in the television series.
the auction house where fry buys anchovies is called staagi & staagi, a reference to the advertising firm saatchi & saatchi, and its founder, charles saatchi's interest in art collection, as well as the term "stodgy," meaning dull and pompous.

trivia.
this episode marks the first appearance of scruffy (planet express' janitor), although he is not identified and does not speak. his mustache is also red as opposed to grey, though he has been shown to enjoy dyeing his hair in "three hundred big boys", in which he sports a pink mohawk.
the figure of $4.3 billion is in fact accurate, given the one-thousand-year investment period at the stated average of 2.25% interest with a beginning principal of $0.93.  this is with annual compounding, as opposed to the more traditional monthly compounding of interest. the actual amount would be $4,283,508,450. ;
 ;
near the end of the episode, amy states that cows are extinct by the year 3000, which explains the buggalo's use for meat.
the door in fry's apartment is seen to open to the right when leela's ponytail gets caught then later to the right when mom's boys kidnap fry.

fry's shopping spree.

with his fortune, fry buys many different things:
top hats;
champagne;
zuban cigars;
a walking ash tray (seen again in the episode "mothers day".);
a massage session for him, leela, and bender at le spa;
a day at the shooting range where priceless paintings (such as the mona lisa) are used instead of clay pigeons;
a 20th century apartment block with original asbestos;
ted danson's skeleton;
an antique robot toy;
an unopened can of angry norwegian anchovies;
assorted videotapes of 20th century television shows and commercials;
a bucket of fossilized kfc;
sir mixalot albums;






</doc>
<doc id="865032" title="kannur district" nonfiltered="650" processed="639" dbindex="656">

for the town with the same name, see kannur. ;
kannur district (malayalam:         ) or cannanore district is one of the 14 districts in the state of kerala, india. the town of kannur is the district headquarters, and gives the district its name. the old name 'cannanore' is the anglicised form of the malayalam name kannur. kannur district is bounded by kasaragod district to the north and kozhikode district to the south. to the east the district is bounded by the western ghats range, which forms the border with karnataka state, in its districts of kodagu and chamarajanagar. the arabian sea lies to the west. 

kannur is the most urbanised district in kerala having more than 50% people living in urban areas. kannur has an urban population of 1,212,898 which is second largest in kerala after ernakulam district.

kannur district is known as the land of looms and lores, because of the number of looms functioning in the district and festivals held in temples. the district is a major centre of theyyam, a ritual dance of northern kerala, and small shrines known as kavus associated with the theyyam dot the district.

origin of name.



there are several myths and legends associated with kannur. the name kannur is said to have been derived from two malayalam words 'kannan' (krishna) and 'ur' (place). it is quite common in india that the names of villages and districts are associated with indian mythological characters, even if there is no mention of such a village in the respective mythology. the name 'kannur' also is not an exception. according to another version, 'kannur' is a derivation of kanathur, an ancient village, the name of which survives even today in one of the wards of kannur municipality. another version is that kannur might have assumed its name from one of the deities of the hindu pantheon, a compound of two words, 'kannan' (lord krishna) and 'ur' (place) making it the place of lord krishna. 

in this context, it is worth mentioning that the deity of the katalayi srikrishna temple was originally installed in a shrine at katalayi kotta in the southeastern part of the present kannur town. it is said that the ships of solomon had anchored along the coasts of kannur to collect timber for building the temple of the lord. kannur also finds mention as naura in the periplus of the erythraean sea, a greek work of great antiquity.

 history .
the earliest evidence of human habitation in the district are rock-cut caves and megalithic burial sites of the neolithic age. the taliparamba-kannur-thalassery area abounds in rock-cut caves, dolmens, burial stone circles and menhirs, all of megalithic burial order. the district was part of the chera kingdom, which ruled most of kerala during the first several centuries ce. later kannur was the capital of the kolattiri rajas, whose kingdom had trading relations with arabia and persia during  12th century and 13th century.  in his book of travels marco polo recounts his visit to the area in mid 1290's. other visitors included faxian, the buddhist pilgrim and ibn batuta, writer and historian of tangiers.

the  portuguese explorer vasco da gama visited kannur in 1498, and shortly thereafter it became a portuguese settlement. the portuguese built st. angelo's fort north of kannur in 1505. in 1558, the kolathiris came openly into the field against the portuguese by providing active support to kunjali marakkars of kozhikode. the kolathiris and the zamorins of kozhikode fought a common war against portuguese and the besieged fort st. angelo in 1564. in the mid-17th century control of kannur passed to the dutch from whom the british captured it in 1783.
the english east india company got its first foothold in the district towards the closing years of the 17th century, when it acquired a site at thalassery for the erection of a fort and a factory. in the latter half of the 18th century, hyder ali and tipu sultan, rulers of mysore, conquered much of the district and came into conflict with the british. in 1792, at the conclusion of the third anglo-mysore war, the british took over kannur and the surrounding region, which became the new malabar district of british india's madras presidency.


indian freedom movement.
kannur district played an important role in indian freedom movement. the indian national congress, which was founded in 1885, established a malabar district committee in 1908. a branch of the all india home rule league, founded by dr. annie beasant, functioned in thalassery during this period and among its active workers was v.k. krishna menon. by the end of 1939, a branch of the communist party of india was formally founded at pinarayi, a village near thalassery. the decision of the nagpur congress to give up constitution methods of agitation and resort to non-violent non co-operation as a means of achieving swaraj, led to widespread boycott of foreign goods, courts of law and educational institutions in kannur. mahatma gandhi and maulana shaukat ali toured the district to carry the message of the non-co-operation and khilafat movements. 

the khilafat movement coincided with the infamous moplah rebellion of 1921. this was put down by the british with an iron hand not before thousands of innocent hindus were massacred by moplah fanatics. what started out as a revolt against british rule became a communal genocide. hindu landlords, labourers and poor farmers were killed, their land and property taken away and thousands converted forcibly. hindu women were kidnapped, tortured and raped.

payyannur conference.
kannur district came into the limelight of kerala politics in may 1928, when the fourth all kerala political conference was held at payyannur under the auspices of the kerala provincial congress. this conference was presided over by pandit jawaharlal nehru. the payyannur conference passed a resolution requesting the indian national congress to adopt  complete independence  instead of  swaraj  as its goal at the annual session which was scheduled to take place at calcutta (now kolkata) during that year .

civil disobedience movement.

payyannur was the main venue of the salt satyagraha, a major turning point in the indian freedom movement, in malabar. on april 13, a batch of congress volunteers under the leadership of  k. kelappan started on foot from kozhikkode to the beaches of payyannur and broke the salt laws there on april 21. the satyagraha camp at payyannur was raided and the campers were beaten up. there were widespread demonstrations in kannur, thalassery and other parts of the district and a number of congress workers were arrested. the period following the withdrawal of the civil disobedience movement witnessed the emergence of a radical wing in the kerala provincial congress. some of the radical elements in the kerala provincial congress organized a kerala unit of the congress socialist party in 1934 and functioned as a separate group within the provincial congress. the leadership of this group was in the hands of persons like p. krishna pillai, a.k. gopalan and e. m. s. namboodiripad. an extremist group of nationalist muslims also emerged within the congress during this period under the leadership of muhammad abdur rahiman. the congress socialists and the nationalist muslims made common cause against the gandhian group known as the right wing which was led by such leaders as k. kelappan, c.k. govindan nair and k.a. damodara menon.

a notable development in the politics of malabar during the thirties was the rise of the muslim league as a district political party. it was the muslim leaders of kannur and thalassery who played the lead role in forming this organization. the leftist elements in the kerala provincial congress were also active in the politics of malabar in the late thirties. they took active part in organizing the workers, peasants, students and teachers of kannur district under their banner. in the election held to the kerala provincial congress committee in january 1939, the rightists suffered a severe set back. muhammad abdur rahiman was elected as the president of the kpcc and e.m.s  namboothiripad as its general secretary. towards the end of the same year, a branch of the indian communist party was formally founded in malabar. the congress socialist party workers joined the communist party en bloc.

morazha incident.
the k.p.c.c. gave a call to the people of malabar to observe september 15, 1940 as anti-imperialist day. the action was disapproved by the congress high command, but there were meetings and demonstrations all over malabar on this day. kannur district was the centre of this agitation. there were violent clashes between the people and the police at several places and lathicharge and firing were resorted to by the police to meet the situation. two young men were killed in a clash between a mob and a police party at morazha. in connection with the later incident, k.p.r. gopalan, a prominent communist, was arrested on a charge of murder and later sentenced to death. but, owing to the intervention of several top ranking political leaders including mahatma gandhi, the death penalty was not carried out. the quit india movement of august 1942 also had its echoes in kannur district. a socialist group among the congress workers under dr. k.b. menon, provided leadership to the movement.

peasant struggles.
the war period, especially from 1943 to 1945, had its ravages on the district. famine and cholera epidemic took thousands of lives from the lower strata of society. on the initiative of the people under the leadership of the kisan sabha, commendable services were rendered to tide over the crisis. the  grow more food campaign  organized at mangattuparamba by the kisan sabha was a new chapter in the history of mass movement. more than 50 acres (200,000 m\b2) of government land was brought under cultivation. but the government suppressed the movement by force and destroyed the farm.

though the war ended in 1945, famine continued to haunt the people. karivellor, the northern most village of the present kannur district, made a historic stride in the struggle against poverty and famine. the transporting of paddy from karivellore to chirakkal kovilakom was blocked and distributed to the people of the village. the movement was led by peasant leaders like a.v. kunhambu and k. krishnan master. one kannan and kunhambu became martyrs in the struggle when police opened fire.

during the month of december 1946, the people of kavumbayi, an eastern village of the district, raised their demand for punam cultivation. a strong police contingent was sent to the spot. the peasants resisted the armed forces which led to the killing of five peasants in the firing. the rise of the organized working class in the industrial sector was another important phenomenon of the period that changed the course of the anti-imperialism movement. the struggle of aron mill workers in the year 1946 is noteworthy in this regard. even after independence, the struggles of the peasantry formed an important part in the history of the state. they fought against landlords and their exploitation. places like thillankeri, manayankunnu, korom and paddikkunnu are memorable in the annals of the peasant struggles in the post independence era. the all india conference of kisan sabha, held at kannur in 1953, resolved to initiate struggles for new tenancy legislations. the movement for aikya kerala (united kerala) also got momentum during this period and all sections of the society rallied under the movement.

government and politics.
kannur was once the nurturing ground and think tank of the communist movement in kerala, and was home of the famous communist leaders a.k.gopalan (a.k.a akg) and e.k. nayanar, former chief minister (cm) of kerala. the nationalist congress party leader and another former cm of kerala, k. karunakaran also hails from kannur. 

communist parties have a strong base in this district. it is estimated that that cpi(m) itself has more than 50% support. cpi (m)-led left democratic front (ldf) governs five of six municipalities in kannur district. around 70% of the panchayats are also governed by ldf. bharatiya janata party (bjp) has very minimal presence in the district. violent clashes between political rivals, especially between cpi(m) and rashtriya swayamsevak sangh (rss) cadres, were quite common in the district until recently.

geography and climate.
geography.
the district lies between latitudes 11\b0 40' to 12\b0 48' north and longitudes 74\b0 52' to 76\b0 07' east and covers an area of 2,996 km\b2 . kannur can be geographically divided into highland, midland and lowland regions. highlands are the mountainous region forming part of the western ghats and are covered by rainforests, plantations of coffee, tea and different types of spices like cardamom. there are also timber plantations in this region. the midland region lies between the highlands and lowlands and is made up of undulating hills and valleys. the lowland is the narrow stretch comprising of rivers, deltas and the coastal region. six rivers drain kannur, the longest being the valapattanam river with a length of 110 km. other rivers flowing through kannur district are kuppam, mahe river, anjarakandi, thalassery, ramapuram and perumba.

climate.
the district has a humid climate with an oppressive hot season from march to the end of may. this is followed by the south-west monsoon which continues till the end of september. october and november from the post-monsoon or retreating monsoon season. 

during the months of april and may, the mean daily maximum temperature is about 35 \b0c. temperature is low in december and january and the minimum temperature is about 20 \b0c. on certain days the night temperature may go down to 16 \b0c , although this is extremely rare. the annual average rainfall is 3438 mm and more than 80% of it occurs during the period of south-west monsoon. the rainfall during july is very heavy and the district receives 68% of the annual rainfall during this season.

beaches.
kannur has several beautiful beaches, some of which are : 


 payyambalam beach: it is the beach of the kannur town. it has an unbroken coastline of a few kilometres. from the beach, one can see ships in transit along the malabar coast, that is, beyond calicut (kozhikode) and moving towards mangalore, goa and bombay (mumbai). the well laid out garden and the massive landscaped sculpture of mother and child erected by noted sculptor kanayi kunhiraman makes it extremely captivating.

baby beach: it is called so as it is smaller than its bigger neighbourhood, payyambalam beach. the famous st. angelo fort is adjacent to it. ;

meenkunnu beach: situated at azhikode, it is hardly a few kilometres from the town.  the virgin beach is a tourist s paradise with golden sand and surf. ;

mopila bay: situated near the st. angelo s fort,  the mopila bay has a historical background. centuries ago, it was the seat of kolathiri kings. the kadalayi fort and sree krishna temple were quite famous. the remnants of the fort and the temple are still seen in mopila bay. a fishing harbour, built with indo norwegian project assistance, can be seen at this bay. boating in the sea, if the weather permits, will be an unforgettable experience.

muzhappilangad beach: a long clean beach, its enchanting ambiance invites you to swim,sunbathe or just lounge around.  it is kerala s only drive-in beach and one could drive the entire length of 4 km. muzhappilangad beach is situated about 5 km north of thalassery and 15 km from kannur. there is an unpaved road winding through coconut groves, leading to the beach. the beach is about 5 kilometers long and curves in a wide area providing a good view of kannur beach on the north. to the south and about 200 metres away from the beach there is a beautiful island called the "green island" which adds to the allure of the beach. such a conjunction of beach and island is rare.

dharmadam island: (100 metres away from the mainland at dharmadam): the small 5 acre (20,000 m\b2) island covered with coconut palms and dense bushes is a beautiful sight from the muzhappilangad beach. during low tide, one can just walk to the island from the beach. it is surrounded by rivers and seas. permission is required to enter this privately owned island. dharmadam, earlier known as dharmapattanam was a buddhist stronghold.

kannur town and kannur city.

 kannur town - formerly known as cannanore, is a town and the administrative headquarters of kannur district.
 kannur city - although just a few kilometres away, is different from kannur town, which houses the major shopping areas and business establishments.

economy.
majority of the population of the district are dependent directly or indirectly on agriculture for their livelihood. the main crops grown in the district are paddy, coconut, pepper, cashew, tapioca, arecanut and plantation crops like rubber.

paddy occupies the largest area among annual crops. under the high yielding variety programme, substantial increase in paddy production has been achieved, even though the percentage of area sown under paddy is decreasing year after year, due to conversion of paddy fields to other purposes. the average yield of paddy is recorded as 2146 kg. per hectare. next to paddy, coconut is the most important crop in the district. coconut is extensively grown throughout the district. an important cash crop grown in the district is cashewnut.  the district plays a unique role in its cultivation and production.  the vast stretches of suitable waste lands with low fertility status extends scope for expansion of cashew cultivation and its allied industries.

among spices, pepper occupies an important place. pepper is mostly grown as an intercrop with coconut, arecanut and various fruit trees. in the hilly areas of the district, the inter-cultivation is done with rubber and cashew. rubber is the most important industrial cash crop among the plantation crops.  

about 55% of the rubber cultivation of kannur district is in taliparamba taluk, followed by thalassery and kannur taluks. the yield of rubber per hectare varies from 2000 kg to 4000 kg.

industry.

kannur district has had its industrial importance from very early days. being blessed with a variety of factors such as good soil, salubrious climate, rich forests, enormous fishing potentials, minerals as well as infrastructural facilities like road, rail, inland water transport, etc., the district offers ample scope for the development of industries. nevertheless, kannur is an industrially backward district in the state. there are only one major and five mini industrial estates in the district. keltron complex, mangattuparamba and western india plywood's, valappattanam are the two major industries. the western india plywoods is one of the biggest wood based industrial complexes in south east asia. the district has 12 medium-scale industries, most of which are either cotton textile or plywood manufacturing.

textiles, beedi and coir are the important traditional industries in the district. about one lakh people depend on the textile industry for livelihood. the textile industry which accounts for 40% of all small scale industrial (ssi) units in the district, was introduced in early 19th century by the german basel mission. the first ready-made garment unit in kannur and the first hosiery unit in kuthuparamba were started around the end of the 19th century. the beedi industry provides employment to about 50,000 people. famous beedi co-operative  dinesh beedi  is in kannur district. the coir industry which uses traditional technology provides employment to about 11,000 workers.

there are 6934 small scale industrial units in the district. the district has 202 sick units which is about 9.3% of the sick units of the state. only 4828 units are working now. 162 industrial societies and four power loom societies are also functioning here. kannur, thalassery, payyannur, taliparamba and edakkad have been identified as growth centers, having potential for industrial development.

divisions.
kannur district came into existence as an administrative unit on january 1 1957, when the erstwhile malabar district and kasaragod taluk of madras state were reconstituted into three revenue districts, viz; kannur, kozhikode and palakkad.  at the time of its formation, the district consisted of seven taluks, viz, kasaragod, hosdurg, taliparamba, kannur, thalassery, north wayanad and south wayanad. subsequently, the south wayanad taluk was included in kozhikode district with effect from 15th march 1957.  later, on first november 1980, wayanad district was formed carving out south wayanad and north wayanad taluks.  two northern most taluks of kannur district, viz; kasaragod and hosdurg were separated on 24th may 1984 for the formation of kasaragod district.

there are nine development blocks comprising of 82 panchayats. the development blocks are kannur, edakkad, irikkur, iritty, kuthuparamba, payyannur, peravoor, taliparamba and thalassery.

the municipal towns in the district are taliparamba, kannur, thalassery, kuthuparamba, payyannur and mattannur. 

kannur district has three taluks, viz., kannur, taliparamba and thalassery.

the district has ten state legislative constituencies viz: irikkur, payyannur, taliparamba, azhikode, kannur, edakkad, thalassery, peringalam, kuthuparamba and peravoor.

transport.



the west coast road from mahe to talapady is the backbone of the road system in kannur district. this is part of the national highway(nh). thalassery  kodagu road and the thalassery   mysore road are the other important roads. the airports at mangalore in karnataka and kozhikode are about 125 killometers away from kannur.



thalassery, kannur and azhikkal are the minor ports in the district. kannur is an ancient port. the nearest all-weather sea port is mangalore, presently in karnataka state name. the inland water transport system connecting perumba and taliparamba was constructed in 1766 by the ali raja of kannur. this 3.8 km long canal is known as the sultan's canal. the west flowing rivers are used for navigation. the kuppam river has 244 km of navigable length; valappattanam, 55 km and anjarakandi, 23 km. the nearest airport is kozhikkode.



demography.
the district has a population of  2,412,365 as of 2001. this is the most advanced district in kerala. about 50.35% of the population reside in the urban agglomerations. the total urban population of kannur district is 1,212,898. this is the second largest urban population in kerala after ernakulam and is more than the population of a metro city.  

the high urban population of the district is due to the 45 towns in the district which is the highest toll in kerala. kannur district has 7 statutory towns namely kannur, kannur cantonment, thalassery, payyannur, taliparamba, kuthuparamba and mattannur. in addition to this there are 38 census towns which are ancharakandy, azhikode north, azhikode south, chala, chelora, cheruthazham, chirakkal, chockli, dharmadom, elayavoor, eranholi, iriveri, kadachira, kadirur, kalliasseri, kanhirode, kannadiparamba, kannapuram, kottayam-malabar, mavilayi, munderi, muzhappilangad, narath, new mahe, paduvilayi, pallikkunnu, panniyannur, panoor, pappinisseri, pathiriyad, pattiom, peralasseri, peringathur, pinarayi, puzhathi, thottada, valapattanam, varam. 

the kannur city has, apart from malayalees and tamils,  a small portuguese, french, punjabi and gujarati speaking population too.



flora and fauna.


kannur district is very rich in vegetation. natural vegetation, except in some coastal regions, consists of different types of forests. but, in spite of generally favourable climatic conditions, vegetation is not uniform. in restricted regions, with their own micro climate or special edaphic features, plant formations assume different characters. thus, plant communities, ranging from psammophytes and mangroves to evergreen forests are seen in this district.

the coastal region is a comparatively narrow zone, characterised by secondary soil which is rather lose and sandy. the sterile sandy tract supports only a poor vegetation of the psammophyte type. plants are few and mostly prostrate. erect species are small and short. owing to very poor water holding capacity of the soil, these plants are provided with special xerophytic adaptations. another conspicuous feature of this area is the mangroove vegetation, found at the estuaries of rivers and backwaters, and often extending to the interior along their banks. human interference has much changed the vegetation of the coastal region.

major part of the district comes under midland region with numerous hills and dales and it presents an undulating surface gradually ascending and merging into the slopes of western ghats. soil is secondary and lateritic with underlying rock of laterite or disintegrated gneiss. typical flora of this area is deciduous forest consisting of a mixture of evergreen and deciduous trees. undergrowth consists of a variety of annuals and perennials.

the mountains are a continuation of the midland region, gradually ascending to the main ridge of the western ghats. soil in the western slopes is a ferrugenous red, sandy loam. vegetation over the whole area is of the forest type. irregular distribution of teak, localised areas of bamboo dominance, change of good quality forest into open grass lands, etc are characteristic.


aralam wildlife.

the aralam wildlife sanctuary is spread over 55 square kilometres of undulating forested highlands on the slopes of the western ghats. it was established in 1984. the headquarters of the sanctuary is near iritty, a small town about 55 kilometres from kannur. the sanctuary adjoins the central state farm at aralam. aralam wild life is situating in muzhakkunnu panchayathu and aralam panchayath. muzhakkunnu is also a tourist spot.

the elevation varies from 50 m to 1145 m. the highest peak here - katti betta - rises to a majestic 1145 m above sea level. covered with tropical and semi evergreen forests, the aralam sanctuary is home to a vast variety of flora and fauna endemic to the western ghats. herds of deer, elephant, boar and bison are common sights. leopards, jungle cats and various types of squirrels are also seen here.



education. 
in the 14th and 15th centuries, during the regime of the kolathiri rajas, taliparamba was renowned all over kerala as a seat of learning, enlightenment and culture. in the early days, the eshuthu pallies under the ezhuthachan or village school master, provided facilities to pupils to acquire elementary education. after undergoing the preliminary course of study in these institutions, the children were sent to the kalaries for acquiring training in gymnastics and in the use of arms and then they were sent to study sanskrit in vedic schools under well trained teachers. this dstrict had in the past, its share of such kalaries and vedic schools. the art, kalaripayattu, is particularly associated with this district.

the beginning of western education in the district may be traced back to the middle of the 16th century. the first english school, known as the basel german mission english school, was started on 1st  march 1856 at thalassery. the brennen school at thalassery, the nucleus of the present govt. brennen college, was started in 1862 with the generous donation made by mr. brennen, master attendant at thalassery.

kannur university was established by the act 22 of 1996 of kerala legislative assembly. the university by the name  malabar university  had come into existence even earlier by the promulgaton of an ordinance by the governor of kerala, on 9th november 1995. the university was inaugurated on 2nd march 1996 by the hon. chief minister of kerala. the objective of the kannur university act 1996 is to establish in the state of kerala a teaching, residential and affiliating university so as to provide for the development of higher education in kasargod and kannur revenue districts and the mananthavady taluk of wayanad district. kannur university is unique in the sense that it is a multi-campus university with campuses located at various locations under its jurisdiction. the present vice-chancellor of kannur university is
dr. p. chandramohan



sports and games.
many well-known personalities in the field of sports and games have adorned kannur in their respective fields. the englishmen of the military centre brought field hockey, cricket, football, etc to kannur during the pre-indepedence period. the famous fort maidan(ground) and police maidan provide ample facilities for youths to excel in this field. the cdre football team and hockey team excelled in those days. at the same time, the traditional martial arts like kalaripayatu has also been flourishing here all along.

after independence, the football clubs helped spread the spirit of the game in kannur. spirited youths, lucky star, brothers club and gymkhana club were popular and produced well known players like d'cruz, soman, dasan, etc. sree narayana college in thottada was considered a nursery of sporstmen the most prominent of them being b devananad who captained the college and later calicut university (the college is now under kannur university) to national universities title. devananad later played for the indian youth team in bangkok and several other tournaments to be picked by tata football team in mumbai. he was the fullback when kerala won its first santosh trophy title in 1973. similarly mani, the captain of the santosh trophy winning kerala team was another well known player though he faded off the sports horizon. 

in hockey too, apart from the military team, there were good teams in kannur and thalassery. cricket, ball-badminton, weightlifting, gymnastics, wrestling, volleyball, etc have been widely played in both urban and rural areas. volleyball has been concentrated upon by youths in rural areas. former indian hockey goalkeeper manuel fredricks is from kannur.

when sports divisions were started in schools in 1976 to tap talents, one of its divisions was started in the district. the sports division attached to govt. higher secondary school, kannur, produced international stars like p.t usha and m.d. valsamma in athletics. leelamma thomas and moly benedict in basketball and anitha retnam and anandavalli in volleyball. the police maidan was the venue for m.d valsamma and mercy mathew to practise athletics; p.k. balachandran, v.p. sathyan, d'cruz, rajan, ramanan, sugunan, c.m. chidanandan, b devananad and george in football and ford and olympian federicks in hockey. westline & leslie in cricket had their training at fort maidan.
kannur became famous in south india for ball badminton, when t.k. ramakrishnan and kumaran were playing. a.m. bharathan created history in weight lifting in the early fifties.

it is also believed that the game of cricket first found its way to kannur,with the british,thus making it the birthplace of the game in india. a few years back,the district cricket association celebrated the 200th anniversary of the game in the district, in a function attended by eminent cricketers like dilip vengsarkar.

landmarks.
snake park.


snake park is a famous landmark in the district of snake park at parassinikkadavu, en route from kannur to taliparamba, 2 km from national highway(nh) 17. here one gets to see a large genre of snakes and other small animals and there is even a live show, where trained personnel play and 'interact' with a variety of snakes, including cobras and vipers, and seek to quell mythical fears and superstitions about snakes. the snake park set up by the visha chikista kendra at pappinisseri, has been a centre of attraction to both foreign and domestic tourists. this kendra(center) offers effective treatment for snake bites with almost 100% cure. this is the only place, perhaps where ayurveda and allopathy are effectively combined for curing snake bites. the snake park here houses about 150 varieties of snakes including the spectacled cobra, king cobra, russell's viper, krait and various pit vipers. there is also a large collection of non-poisonous snakes including pythons. a research laboratory to extract venom from snakes is proposed to be set up here. the park is dedicated to the preservation and conservation of snakes, many species of which are getting extinct gradually. it is located 16 km from kannur. parassinikkadavu is also noted for the famous muthappan temple. this is the only temple in kerala where a theyyam performance is a daily ritual offering.


st. angelo's fort.



st. angelo's fort, built in 1505 by sir francisco de almeida, the first portuguese viceroy of india, is situated near the sea coast and about 2 km away from kannur town. this fort has a legendary past. having witnessed several wars for seizing the control of the fort, the british flag flew over it finally in 1790. even now, it is in a fairly good state of preservation, and is a protected monument under archaeological survey of india (asi). a painting of this fort and the fishing ferry behind the fort can be seen in the rijksmuseum in amsterdam.



paithal mala. 
this hill on the kerala-karnataka border is 65 km north of kannur. ideal for trekking; it is around 1,450 metres above sea level. a base reception centre and a watchtower atop the cliff function for the benefit of tourists and trekkers.
thiruvangad temple.
the thiruvangad temple, dedicated to sree rama, one of the important temple located in kannur.the most striking feature of this temple is the copper sheeting of its roof, due to which it is known popularly as the brass pagoda.a part of the temple was damaged by tipu's troops in the 18th century, but the temple itself is believed to have been saved from destruction by a miracle.
it was one of the outposts of the thalassery fort in the eighteenth century. in its precincts, many conferences were held between the officials of the east india company and local leaders, after which important political treaties and agreements were signed. the temple contains some interesting sculptures and lithic records.
the annual festival of temple commences on vishu day in medam (april-may) and lasts for seven days.

sree ramaswami temple.
sree ramaswami temple, which is dedicated to sri rama, is one of the most important temples in malabar. it is situated 23 km from kannur, near thalasseri fort. the exquisite carvings in the temple are believed to have been done nearly 400 years ago.

trichambaram temple.
trichambaram temple is situated 20 km from kannur, near taliparamba town which is famous for its spices trade. the deity of the temple is sree krishna. the sculptures on the walls of the sanctum sanctorum are a class by themselves. the annual temple festival (utsavam) is a colourful event. the fortnight-long festival begins on kumbham 22 of malayalam calendar (which generally falls on march 6) every year with the kodiyettam (hoisting of a religious flag) and comes to an end on meenam 6 (which generallay falls on march 20) with koodipiriyal (ending of this festival). in between these dates, for 11 days, thitambu nriththam (a sort of dance with idols of sri krishna and balarama) is held at pookoth nada (1 km  from trichambaram temple).


muthappan temple.


sree muthappan is the most popular local god in the north kerala especially in kannur district. muthappan is also the theyyam performed in the famous muthappan temple 16 km north of kannur town.



rajarajeswara temple.
the rajarajeswara temple is a beautiful shiva temple  (rajarajeswara is one of the names of shiva) and is located at taliparamba, kannur distrist, kerala, india.

the temple is regarded as one of the  108 ancient shiva temples of kerala. it has a prominent place amongst the numerous shiva temples in south india. if any problem is encountered in temples of south india, the final solution is sought in this temple through a prasna, a traditional method of astrological decision making. the prasna is conducted on a peedha (a raised platform) situated outside the temple.

the quadrangular sanctum has a two tiered pyramidal roof. in front of the sanctum is the namaskara mandapam. the temple has no kodi maram (flagstaff) which is a unique feature as other temples in kerala do have one.

ezhimala.

ezhimala, the capital of the ancient mooshika kings, is considered to be an ancient historical site. it is a conspicuous, isolated cluster of hills,  forming a promontory, 38 km north of kannur town. a flourishing sea port and centre of trade in ancient kerala, it was one of the major battle fields of the chola-chera war of the 11th century. it is believed that lord buddha had visited ezhimala. an old mosque, believed to contain the mortal remains of shaikh abdul latif, a muslim reformist, is also located here. the hill is noted for rare medicinal herbs. there is an old tower of great antiquity here, the mount deli light house. it is maintained by the indian navy and is a restricted area. the beach sand is of a different texture and the sea is bluer than in other areas. at the ettikulam bay, one can enjoy watching dolphins. bordered by sea on three sides, ezhimala is set to occupy a prominent place in the naval history of the country, consequent to the proposal for commissioning the naval academy there.

madayi mosque.
this beautiful ancient mosque was originally built in 1124 by malik ibn dinar, a muslim preacher. a block of white marble in the mosque is believed to have been brought from mecca by its founder, who came to india to spread the word of muhammad. near by, lies a dilapidated fort believed to have been built by tipu sultan, the ruler of mysore.

madayipara.
this is a beautiful place near to the madayi temple,located at pazhayangadi in kannur district.madayipara is a significant spot owing to its bio-diversity as well as history. madayipara was the administrative center of the ezhimala kings. in and around madayipara, one can find remnants from the past. at the southern side of the hill, stand the remains of a fort called pazhi kotta (kotta means fort in malayalam). here one can also find watchtowers at the four corners of the fort. between ad 14 and ad 18, madayipara used to be the site for the coronation ceremony of the rulers of the princely state of the erstwhile kolathunadu. 

the hillock of madayipara, which carries several signs of historic relevance, is also a place important from a religious point of view. here, a pond in the shape of a hand held mirror, connected to ancient jewish setllers is another historic attraction. similarly, a temple at this site, called vadukunda siva temple and the adjoining lake, about an acre in extension form yet another attraction at madayipara. the lake near the temple will not go dry even in hot summer months and remains a source of nourishment to life forms at madayipara. the pooram festival of madayi kavu (kavu   family temples and those in the midst of thick vegetation) held at madayipara has been responsible for much of its fame. 

with regard to the bio-diversity of madayipara, it has been found that the region contains about 300 flowering plants, about 30 varieties of grass, and several insect-eating plant species. madayipara is also home to several --rare medicinal herbs, which are sought by people from near and far off places. coming to avian life, madayipara sustains about 100 species of butterflies and about 150 species of birds. among the biggest butterflies in the world, the atlas butterfly is a visitor to madayipara.

famous personalities.
a.k. gopalan ;
e k nayanar;
swadeshbhimani ramakrishna pillai;
k karunakaran;

see also.
kannur  town;
kannur city;
payyambalam beach;
meenkunnu beach;
parassinikkadavu;
parassinikkadavu snake park;
muthappan;
ayippuzha  ;
muthappan theyyam;
muthappan temple;
rajarajeshwara temple;
kunnathoor padi;
valapattanam;
st. angelo fort - (kannur fort);
thalassery fort;
chirakkal raja;
ali raja;
udayagiri, kannur;

external links.

 official website;
 kannur page - official website of kerala government;
 kannur tourism;
 kerala chief ministers official site - mlas in kannur district;
 malayala manorama online's kannur page;
 kannur university;
 kerala global - kannur district info;
 article on st.angelo's fort in hindu young world;

photo gallery of tourist centers in the kannur district.












</doc>
<doc id="3596149" title="elaphe radiata" nonfiltered="651" processed="640" dbindex="657">


radiated ratsnakes or copperhead rat snake elaphe radiata is a species of snake.
distribution:
indonesia (sumatra, bangka, borneo/kalimantan, java), ;
malaysia (malaya and east malaysia); borneo, ;
singapore island, ;
burma (myanmar),
thailand (incl. phuket), ;
laos, cambodia, vietnam,
india (assam, arunachal pradesh (miao - changlang district, chessa, chimpu, itanagar - papum pare district) captain, pers. comm.),
bangladesh, nepal, ;
s china (fujian, yunnan, guangxi, guangdong, hong kong), ;
nepal;

type locality: java (boie, 1827)


external links.
 embl reptile database;

references.

 barbour, thomas 1912 some chinese vertebrates: amphibia and reptilia. memoirs of the museum of comparative zo\f6logy 40 (4): 125-136;
 boie, f. 1827 bemerkungen \fcber merrem's versuch eines systems der amphibien, 1. lieferung: ophidier. isis van oken, jena, 20: 508-566.
 gumprecht, a. 2003 anmerkungen zu den chinesischen kletternattern der gattung elaphe (sensu lato) fitzinger 1833. reptilia (m\fcnster) 8 (6): 37-41;
 helfenberger, notker 2001 phylogenetic relationship of old world ratsnakes based on visceral organ topography, osteology, and allozyme variation. russ. j. herpetol. (suppl.), 56 pp.
 schmidt, d. 1983 die strahlennatter, elaphe radiata (schlegel). elaphe 1983 (3): 33-36;
 schulz, klaus-dieter 1996 a monograph of the colubrid snakes of the genus elaphe fitzinger. koeltz scientific books, 439 pp.
 utiger, urs, notker helfenberger, beat sch\e4tti, catherine schmidt, markus ruf and vincent ziswiler 2002 molecular systematics and phylogeny of old world and new world ratsnakes, elaphe auct., and related genera (reptilia, squamata, colubridae). russ. j. herpetol. 9 (2): 105-124.




</doc>
<doc id="8910629" title="lahey clinic hospital" nonfiltered="652" processed="641" dbindex="658">





the lahey clinic is a not-for-profit teaching hospital founded in 1923 by dr. frank h. lahey.

about lahey clinic.
in 1923, medical clinics were not common in the united states. in those times, doctors made house calls, often with a horse and buggy. if there were problems that the family doctor could not handle, the patent would be referred to a specialist or transported to a hospital. both the specialists and the hospitals were usually located in faraway cities. many specialists could only be reached by train because they were located in new york or chicago. dr. lahey s idea, which was new at the time, was to create a clinic where all kinds of specialists worked at the same place. today s lahey clinic is much larger than the original so it is not all in one building anymore, but the concept remains

since the lahey clinic specializes in oncology (cancer therapy), some patients are very sick, and may even die. these patients are treated with compassion in addition to the normal high level of competence. this is part of a longstanding culture acquired by those doctors and specialists working at lahey. see this end of life resource guide for patients with terminal illnesses.

lahey clinic has been well known for a long time. in 1940, an article was written about it in time magazine. the article described the history of the clinic and dr. lahey's election as the new president of the american medical association. at the time of the article, the lahey clinic was located in downtown boston. dr. frank h. lahey, the clinic's founder was franklin d. roosevelt's personal physician and during beginning wwii, was chairman of the directing board of the procurement and assignment service for the united states army. he ran the clinic for over forty years.

capabilities.
lahey clinic has more than four-hundred physicians and nearly five-thousand nurses, therapists, and other support staff. since there are on-staff physicians for virtually every specialty, a patient s medical needs are almost always met without the patient having to transfer to other facilities for specialized treatment. 

lahey clinic provides advanced research and medical education as part of the tufts university school of medicine. in addition, many physicians hold teaching assignments at harvard medical school and boston university school of medicine. the clinic maintains residency and fellowship programs for more than one-hundred students as well.

facilities.
the burlington, massachusetts center provides ambulatory care, serving more than 3,000 patients each day plus a 293-bed hospital. the level ii trauma center is at this location as well. the north shore facility, in peabody, massachusetts, serves more than 800 outpatients each day and includes a 10-bed hospital. both locations have 24-hour emergency departments.

references.

lahey clinic -- research for microrna role in urologic cancer;
lahey clinic -- the u.s. administration on aging (aoa) ;
nuclear technology in use at lahey clinic;
u.s.news & world report, best hospitals;
lahey clinic physician wins service award;
u.s. government clinical trials ongoing at lahey clinic;
u.s. national institutes of health government grants to lahey clinic;
453 medical publications citing lahey clinic in the national center for biotechnology information, national library of medicine;
paper published by lahey for the u.s. department of health and human services, on protecting human subjects;
national library of medicine --history of lahey clinic department of department of neurosurgery;
news story about lahey clinic and a new cardiology fellowship   contains a lahey history;
private organization rates lahey clinic;
book about liver transplantation at lahey clinic;
national institutes of health paper on rapid detection of bloodstream infections investigations at lahey clinic;
careermd.com recruiting ad for recommending lahey clinic, cites history and culture;
article on a unique liver transplant at lahey clinic;
massachusetts government report on hospitals;








</doc>
<doc id="751045" title="eric schlosser" nonfiltered="653" processed="642" dbindex="660">
eric schlosser (born august 17, 1959) is an award-winning american journalist and author known for investigative or muckracking journalism. a number of critics have compared his work to that of upton sinclair . 

personal history.
schlosser was born in manhattan, new york and spent his childhood there and in seattle, washington. his father, herbert schlosser, was a former wall street lawyer who turned to broadcasting later in his career, eventually becoming the president of nbc in 1974. schlosser is married to shauna redford, daughter of robert redford, and has two children.

eric schlosser studied american history at princeton university and earned a graduate degree in british imperial history from oxford. 

schlosser now lives in california and is working on a book about the prison system. 
 
work.

as an aspiring playwright schlosser wrote the play americans in 1985. it deals with the theme of american imperialism at the beginning of the 20th century, and features leon czolgosz, william mckinley's assassin, who kills the president in anger over u.s. occupation of the philippines. americans was produced in 2003, but is not available in the united states.

schlosser started his career as a journalist with the the atlantic monthly in boston, massachusetts. he quickly gained recognition for his investigative journalism at the magazine earning two awards within two years of joining; he won the national magazine award for reporting for this two part series   reefer madness  and  marijuana and the law  (atlantic monthly, august and september, 1994), and he won the sidney hillman foundation award for his article,  in the strawberry fields  (atlantic monthly, november 1995). aside from the atlantic monthly, schlosser's work has appeared in rolling stone, vanity fair, the nation and the new yorker. 

schlosser is best known for his bestselling book, fast food nation, an expos\e9 on the unsanitary and discriminatory practices of the fast food industry. fast food nation evolved from a two-part article in rolling stone magazine. schlosser helped adapt his book into a a 2006 film directed by richard linklater. the film based on "fast food nation" opened november 17, 2006. schlosser is credited as co-screenwriter and executive producer. 

he has also written reefer madness. 
 
schlosser appears in an interview for the dvd of morgan spurlock's super size me, having a one-on-one discussion with the filmmaker about the fast food industry. he declined to appear in the film itself and rarely makes appearances in public.

food industry's reaction to mr. schlosser's work.
in may 2006, schlosser and his co-author charles wilson released a children's book entitled "chew on this."  the book, along with increasing publicity for an upcoming hollywood movie based on "fast food nation," resulted in 18 food industry associations launching the www.bestfoodnation.com website as part of a major public relations campaign. the site presents statements about health and labor practices in the american beef, pork, dairy, potato and other industries. one page includes two press releases accusing schlosser of publishing misinformation . however, few of the site's responses to the "myths" it accuses schlosser and his allies of propagating actually answer any of the issues raised in his writings.

references.

janet adamy and richard gibson,  flak over 'fast food nation' u.s. food manufacturers rally to oppose a film and a book that blame them for obesity, may 18, 2006.

crain's chicago business, authors and mcdonald's exchange more volleys, june 2, 2006;

best food nation: what others are saying (accessed july 26, 2006);

commencement address at depauw university, may 22, 2005;

the new new journalism august 12, 2006;

links.
(pdf) biography at royce carlton publishers, dec. 11, 2006;
biography at drury university, dec. 11, 2006;
(ms word) biography at indiana university of pennsylvania, dec. 11, 2006;
ubben lecture at depauw university;
session i: "moving beyond fast food nation" (university channel audio/video) this is the opening session of a princeton university conference on "food, ethics and the environment," with peter singer. eric schlosser is introduced at minute 30:30.











</doc>
<doc id="314493" title="m\f6bius transformation" nonfiltered="654" processed="643" dbindex="661">
m\f6bius transformations should not be confused with the m\f6bius transform or the m\f6bius function.;

in geometry, a m\f6bius transformation is a function:

;

where z, a, b, c, d are complex numbers satisfying ad   bc   0.

equivalently, a mobius transformation may be performed by performing a stereographic projection from a plane to a sphere, rotating and moving that sphere to a new arbitrary location and orientation, and performing a stereographic projection back to the plane.

m\f6bius transformations are named in honor of august ferdinand m\f6bius, although they are also called homographic transformations or fractional linear transformations.

overview.

m\f6bius transformation is a bijective conformal map of the extended complex plane (i.e. the complex plane augmented by the point at infinity):
;

the set of all m\f6bius transformations forms a group under composition called the m\f6bius group.

the m\f6bius group is the automorphism group of the riemann sphere, sometimes denoted
;
certain subgroups of the m\f6bius group form the automorphism groups of the other simply-connected riemann surfaces (the complex plane and the hyperbolic plane). as such, m\f6bius transformations play an important role in the theory of riemann surfaces. the covering group of every riemann surface is a discrete subgroup of the m\f6bius group (see fuchsian group and kleinian group). m\f6bius transformations are also closely related to isometries of hyperbolic 3-manifolds.

a particularly important subgroup of the m\f6bius group is the modular group; it is central to the theory of many fractals, modular forms, elliptic curves and pellian equations.

in physics, the identity component of the lorentz group acts on the celestial sphere the same way that the m\f6bius group acts on the riemann sphere. in fact, these two groups are isomorphic. an observer who accelerates to relativistic velocities will see the pattern of constellations as seen near the earth continuously transform according to infinitesimal m\f6bius transformations.  this observation is often taken as the starting point of twistor theory.

definition.

the general form of a m\f6bius transformation is given by
;
where a, b, c, d are any complex numbers satisfying ad   bc   0. (if ad = bc the rational function defined above is a constant.) this definition can be extended to the whole riemann sphere (the complex plane plus the point at infinity).

the set of all m\f6bius transformations forms a group under composition. this group can be given the structure of a complex manifold in such a way that composition and inversion are holomorphic maps. the m\f6bius group is then a complex lie group. the m\f6bius group is usually denoted  as it is the automorphism group of the riemann sphere.

decomposition and elementary properties.

a m\f6bius transformation is equivalent to a sequence of simpler transformations. let:

  (translation);
  (inversion and reflection);
  (dilation and rotation);
  (translation);

then

;

this decomposition makes many properties of the m\f6bius transform obvious.

for example, the preservation of angles is reduced to proving the angle preservation property of circle inversion, since all other transformation are isometries, which trivially preserve angles and distances.

the existence of an inverse m\f6bius transformation function and its explicit formula is easily derived by a composition of the inverse function of the simpler transformations. that is, define functions  such that  is the inverse of 
, then composition  would be the explicit expression for the inverse m\f6bius transformation:

from this decomposition, we also see that m\f6bius transformation carries over all non-trivial properties of circle inversion. namely, that circles are mapped to circles, and angles are preserved. also, because of the circle inversion, is carried over the convenience of defining m\f6bius transformation over a plane with a point at infinity, which makes statements and concepts of m\f6bius transformation's properties simpler.

for another example, look at . if , then the transformation collapses to the point 0, then  moves to . collapsing to a point is not an interesting transformation, thus we require in the definition of m\f6bius transformation that .

preservation of angles and circles.

as seen from the above decomposition, m\f6bius transformation contains this transformation 
, called complex inversion. geometrically, a complex inversion is a circle inversion followed by a reflection around the x-axis.

in circle inversion, circles are mapped to circles (here, lines are considered as circles with infinite radius), and angles are preserved. see circle inversion for various properties and proofs.

cross-ratio preservation.

the cross-ratio preservation theorem states that the 
cross-ratio

is invariant under a m\f6bius transformation that maps from z to w.

the action of the m\f6bius group on the riemann sphere is sharply 3-transitive in the sense that there is a unique m\f6bius transformation which takes any three distinct points on the riemann sphere to any other set of three distinct points. see the section below on specifying a transformation by three points.

projective matrix representations.

the transformation
;
can be usefully expressed as a matrix
;
the condition ad   bc   0 is equivalent to the condition that the determinant of above matrix be nonzero (i.e. the matrix should be non-singular). note that multiplying  by any complex number   gives rise to the same transformation. such matrix representations are called projective representations for reasons explained below. it is often convenient to normalize  so that its determinant is equal to 1. the matrix  is then unique up to sign.

the usefulness of this representation is that the composition of two m\f6bius transformations corresponds precisely to matrix multiplication of the corresponding matrices. that is, if we define a map 
;
from the general linear group gl(2,c) to the m\f6bius group
which sends the matrix  to the transformation f, then this map is a group homomorphism.

the map  is not an isomorphism, since it maps any scalar multiple of  to the same transformation. the kernel of this homomorphism is then the set of all scalar matrices ki, which is the center of gl(2,c). the quotient group gl(2,c)/z(gl(2,c)) is called the projective linear group and is usually denoted pgl(2,c). by the first isomorphism theorem of group theory we conclude that the m\f6bius group is isomorphic to pgl(2,c). since z(gl(2,c)) is the kernel of the group action given by gl(2,c) acting on itself by conjugation, pgl(2, c) is isomorphic to the inner automorphism group of gl(2,c). moreover, the natural action of pgl(2,c) on the complex projective line cp1 is exactly the natural action of the m\f6bius group on the riemann sphere when the sphere and the projective line are identified as follows:
;
here  are homogeneous coordinates on cp1.

if one normalizes  so that the determinant is equal to one, the map  restricts to a surjective map from the special linear group sl(2,c) to the m\f6bius group. the m\f6bius group is therefore also isomorphic to psl(2,c). we then have the following isomorphisms:
;
from the last identification we see that the m\f6bius group is a 3-dimensional complex lie group (or a 6-dimensional real lie group). it is not simply connected, since psl(2,c) is not (why isn't it?).

note that there are precisely two matrices with unit determinant which can be used to represent any given m\f6bius transformation. that is, sl(2,c) is a double cover of psl(2,c). since sl(2,c) is simply-connected it is the universal cover of the m\f6bius group. the fundamental group of the m\f6bius group is then z2.

classification.

m\f6bius transformations are commonly classified into four types, parabolic, elliptic, hyperbolic and loxodromic (actually hyperbolic is a special case of loxodromic). the classification has both algebraic and geometric significance.  geometrically, the different types result in different transformations of the complex plane, as the figures below illustrate.  these types can be distinguished by looking at the trace . note that the trace is invariant under conjugation, that is, 

;

and so every member of a conjugacy class will have the same trace. every m\f6bius transformation can be written such that its representing matrix  has determinant one (by multiplying the entries with a suitable scalar). two m\f6bius transformations  (both not equal to the identity transform) with  are conjugate if and only if .

in the following discussion we will always assume that the representing matrix  is normalized such that .

parabolic transforms
the transform is said to be parabolic if 
.
a transform is parabolic if and only if it has one fixed point in the compactified complex plane . it is parabolic if and only if it is conjugate to 

.

the subgroup consisting of all parabolic transforms of this form:

;

is an example of a borel subgroup, which generalizes the idea to higher dimensions.

all other non-identity transformations have two fixed points. all non-parabolic (non-identity) transforms are conjugate to

 ;

with  not equal to 0, 1 or -1.  the square   is called the characteristic constant or multiplier of the transformation.

elliptic transforms
the transform is said to be elliptic if 
.
a transform is elliptic if and only if . writing , an elliptic transform is conjugate to 


with  real. note that for any , the characteristic constant of  is . thus, the only m\f6bius transformations of finite order are the elliptic transformations, and these only when   is a root of unity; equivalently, when   is a rational multiple of pi.

hyperbolic transforms
the transform is said to be hyperbolic if 

.
a transform is hyperbolic if and only if   is real and positive.

loxodromic transforms
the transform is said to be loxodromic if  is not in the closed interval of . hyperbolic transforms are thus a special case of loxodromic transformations. a transformation is loxodromic if and only if . historically, navigation by loxodrome or rhumb line refers to a path of constant bearing; the resulting path is a logarithmic spiral, similar in shape to the transformations of the complex plane that a loxodromic m\f6bius transformation makes.  see the geometric figures below.



fixed points.

every non-identity m\f6bius transformation has two fixed points  on the riemann sphere. note that the fixed points are counted here with multiplicity; for parabolic transformations, the fixed points coincide. either or both of these fixed points may be the point at infinity.

the fixed points of the transformation
;
are obtained by solving the fixed point equation . for , this has two roots (proof):
;
note that for parabolic transformations, which satisfy , the fixed points coincide. 

when  one of the fixed points is at infinity, the other is given by
;
the transformation will be a simple transformation composed of translations, rotations, and dilations: .

if  and , then both fixed points are at infinity, and the m\f6bius transformation corresponds to a pure translation: .

normal form.

m\f6bius transformations are also sometimes written in terms of their fixed points in so-called normal form. we first treat the non-parabolic case, for which there are two distinct fixed points.

non-parabolic case:

every non-parabolic transformation is conjugate to a dilation, i.e. a transformation of the form
;
with fixed points at 0 and  . to see this define a map
;
which sends the points  to . here we assume that both  and  are finite. if one of them is already at infinity then g can be modified so as to fix infinity and send the other point to 0.

if f has distinct fixed points  then the transformation  has fixed points at 0 and   and is therefore a dilation: . the fixed point equation for the transformation f can then be written
;

solving for f gives (in matrix form):



or, if one of the fixed points is at infinity:



from the above expressions one can calculate the derivatives of f at the fixed points:

 and ;

observe that, given an ordering of the fixed points, we can distinguish one of the multipliers (k) of f as the characteristic constant of f. reversing the order of the fixed points is equivalent to taking the inverse multiplier for the characteristic constant:
;

for loxodromic transformations, whenever , one says that  is the repulsive fixed point, and  is the attractive fixed point. for , the roles are reversed.

parabolic case:

in the parabolic case there is only one fixed point . the transformation sending point to   is
;
or the identity if  is already at infinity. the transformation  fixes infinity and is therefore a translation:
;

here,   is called the translation length. the fixed point formula for a parabolic transformation is then 

.

solving for f (in matrix form) gives



or, if :



note that  is not the characteristic constant of f, which is always 1 for a parabolic transformation. from the above expressions one can calculate:
;

geometric interpretation of the characteristic constant.

the following picture depicts (after stereographic transformation from the sphere to the plane) the two fixed points of a m\f6bius transformation in the non-parabolic case: 



the characteristic constant can be expressed in terms of its logarithm:
;
when expressed in this way, the real number  becomes an expansion factor. it indicates how repulsive the fixed point  is, and how attractive  is. 
the real number  is a rotation factor, indicating to what extent the transform rotates the plane anti-clockwise about  and clockwise about .

 elliptic transformations .

if , then the fixed points are neither attractive nor repulsive but indifferent, and the transformation is said to be elliptical. these transformations tend to move all points in circles around the two fixed points. if one of the fixed points is at infinity, this is equivalent to doing an affine rotation around a point.  

if we take the one-parameter subgroup generated by any elliptic m\f6bius transformation, we obtain a continuous transformation, such that every transformation in the subgroup fixes the same two points.  all other points flow along a family of circles which is nested between the two fixed points on the riemann sphere.  in general, the two fixed points can be any two distinct points.

this has an important physical interpretation.
imagine that some observer rotates with constant angular velocity about some axis.  then we can take the two fixed points to be the north and south poles of the celestial sphere.  the appearance of the night sky is now transformed continuously in exactly the manner described by the one-parameter subgroup of elliptic transformations sharing the fixed points , and with the number  corresponding to the constant angular velocity of our observer.

here are some figures illustrating the effect of an elliptic m\f6bius transformation on the riemann sphere (after stereographic projection to the plane):



these pictures illustrate the effect of a single m\f6bius transformation.  the one-parameter subgroup which it generates continuously moves points along the family of circular arcs suggested by the pictures.

 hyperbolic transformations .

if  is zero (or a multiple of ), then the transformation is said to be hyperbolic. these transformations tend to move points along circular paths from one fixed point toward the other.  

if we take the one-parameter subgroup generated by any hyperbolic m\f6bius transformation, we obtain a continuous transformation, such that every transformation in the subgroup fixes the same two points.  all other points flow along a certain family of circular arcs away from the first fixed point and toward the second fixed point.  in general, the two fixed points may be any two distinct points on the riemann sphere.

this too has an important physical interpretation.  imagine that an observer accelerates (with constant magnitude of acceleration) in the direction of the north pole on his celestial sphere.  then the appearance of the night sky is transformed in exactly the manner described by the one-parameter subgroup of hyperbolic transformations sharing the fixed points , with the real number  corresponding to the magnitude of his acceleration vector.  the stars seem to move along longitudes, away from the south pole toward the north pole.  (the longitudes appear as circular arcs under stereographic projection from the sphere to the plane).

here are some figures illustrating the effect of a hyperbolic m\f6bius transformation on the riemann sphere (after stereographic projection to the plane):



it is not surprising that these pictures look very much like the field lines of bar magnets, since the circular flow lines subtend a constant angle between the two fixed points.

 loxodromic transformations .

if both   and   are nonzero, then the transformation is said to be loxodromic.  these transformations tend to move all points in s-shaped paths from one fixed point to the other. 

the word "loxodrome" is from the greek: "loxos, slanting + dromos, course". when sailing on a constant bearing - if you maintain a heading of (say) north-east, you will eventually wind up sailing around the north pole in a logarithmic spiral. on the mercator projection such a course is a straight line, as the north and south poles project to infinity. the angle that the loxodrome subtends relative to the lines of longitude (ie, its slope, the "tightness" of the spiral) is the argument of k. of course, m\f6bius transformations may have their two fixed points anywhere, not just at the north and south poles. but any loxodromic transformation will be conjugate to a transform that moves all points along such loxodromes.

if we take the one-parameter subgroup generated by any loxodromic m\f6bius transformation, we obtain a continuous transformation, such that every transformation in the subgroup fixes the same two points.  all other points flow along a certain family of curves, away from the first fixed point and toward the second fixed point.  unlike the hyperbolic case, these curves are not circular arcs, but certain curves which under stereographic projection from the sphere to the plane appear as spiral curves which twist counterclockwise infinitely often around one fixed point and twist clockwise infinitely often around the other fixed point.  in general, the two fixed points may be any two distinct points on the riemann sphere.

you can probably guess the physical interpretation in the case when the two fixed points are : an observer who is both rotating (with constant angular velocity) about some axis and boosting (with constant magnitude acceleration) along the same axis, will see the appearance of the night sky transform according to the one-parameter subgroup of loxodromic transformations with fixed points , and with  determined respectively by the magnitude of acceleration and angular velocity.

here are some pictures illustrating the effect of a loxodromic transformation:



 stereographic projection .

these images show m\f6bius transformations stereographically projected onto the riemann sphere. note in particular that when projected onto a sphere, the special case of a fixed point at infinity looks no different to having the fixed points in an arbitrary location. 



 iterating a transformation .

if a transformation  has fixed points , and characteristic constant 'k, then  will have .

this can be used to iterate a transformation, or to animate one by breaking it up into steps. 

these images show three points (red, blue and black) continuously iterated under transformations with various characteristic constants.



and these images demonstrate what happens when you tranform a circle under hyperbolic, elliptical, and loxodromic transforms. note that in the elliptical and loxodromic images, the   value is 1/10 .

  



poles of the transformation.

the point
;

is called the pole of ; it is that point which is transformed to the point at infinity under .

the inverse pole
;

is that point to which the point at infinity is transformed.
the point midway between the two poles is always the same as the point midway between the two fixed points:
;

these four points are the vertices of a parallelogram which is sometimes called the characteristic parallelogram of the transformation.

a transform  can be specified with two fixed points  and the pole .


this allows us to derive a formula for conversion between  and  given :
;


which reduces down to
;

the last expression coincides with one of the (mutually reciprocal) eigenvalue ratios  of the matrix

representing the transform (compare the discussion in the preceding section about the characteristic constant of a transformation). its characteristic polynomial is equal to 

which has roots


specifying a transformation by three points.
direct approach.

any set of three points 
 
uniquely defines a transformation . to calculate this out, it is handy to make use of a transformation that is able to map three points onto (0,0), (1, 0) and the point at infinity.

 

one can get rid of the infinities by multiplying out by  and  as previously noted.

 

the matrix  to map  onto  then becomes
;

you can multiply this out, if you want, but if you are writing code then it's easier to use temporary variables for the middle terms.

explicit determinant formula.

the problem of constructing a m\f6bius transformation  mapping a triple  to another triple  is equivalent to finding the equation of a standard hyperbola 
;
in the (z,w)-plane passing through the points . an explicit equation can be found by evaluating the determinant
 
by means of a laplace expansion along the first row. this results in the determinant formulae
 
 
 
 
for the coefficients  of the representing matrix . the constructed matrix  has determinant equal to  which does not vanish if the zi resp. wi are pairwise different thus the m\f6bius transformation is well-defined.

remark: a similar determinant (with  replaced by ) leads to the equation of a circle through three different (non collinear) points in the plane.

alternate method using cross-ratios of point quadruples.

this construction exploits the fact (mentioned in the first section) that the cross-ratio

is invariant under a m\f6bius transformation mapping a quadruple  to  via . if  maps a triple  of pairwise different zi to another triple , then the m\f6bius transformation  is determined by the equation

or written out in concrete terms:


the last equation can be transformed into 

solving this equation for  one obtains the sought transformation.

relation to the fixed point normal form

assume that the points  are the two (different) fixed points of the m\f6bius transform  i.e. . write . the last equation 

then reads 

in the previous section on normal form a m\f6bius transform with two fixed points  was expressed using the characteristic constant k of the transform as

comparing both expressions one derives the equality
 ;
where  is different from the fixed points  and  is the image of z1  under . in particular the cross-ratio

does not depend on the choice of the point z (different from the two fixed points) and is equal to the characteristic constant.

see also.

 fuchsian group;
 hyperbolic geometry ;
 inversive ring geometry;
 kleinian group;
 lorentz group;
 modular group;
 poincar\e9 half-plane model;
 projective geometry;
 bilinear transform;
 inversion transformation;

references.
  (aimed at non-mathematicians, provides an excellent exposition of theory and results, richly illustrated with diagrams.);

 (see chapters 3-5 of this classic book for a beautiful introduction to the riemann sphere, stereographic projection, and m bius transformations.);

  (see chapter 3 for a beautifully illustrated introduction to m bius transformations, including their classification up to conjugacy.);

;

 see chapter 2.

 (see chapter 2 for various isomorphisms, and for the lorentz group viewed as a galois group.);

 (see chapter 6 for the classification, up to conjugacy, of the lie subalgebras of the lie algebra of the lorentz group.);

external links.

 a java applet allowing you to specify a transformation via its fixed points and so on can be found at .

 a java applet demonstrating iterated application of a mobius transformation to a circle can be found at  .

 conformal maps gallery ;

 ;

 mobius tranformation module by john h. mathews;














</doc>
<doc id="2398130" title="ministry of public security of burundi" nonfiltered="655" processed="644" dbindex="662">

ministry of public security of burundi is the ministry of the interior of burundi. the minister since 2005 is jean-marie ngendahayo. within the armed conflict, illegal killings by security forces happen . this conflict is particularly severe in rural bujumbura province. the clearing of land mines is among the tasks of the ministry.




</doc>
<doc id="8806018" title="frank pittman" nonfiltered="656" processed="645" dbindex="663">


frank smith pittman, iii, m.d. (1935 - ) is an american psychiatrist and author.  he writes a regular column, "ask dr. frank", which appears in psychology today.  

he is a "widely quoted author" of man enough: fathers, sons and the search for masculinity and private lies: infidelity and betrayal of intimacy.  he is also author of books grow up!: how taking responsibility can make you a happy adult, and turning points: treating families in transition and crisis.

dr. pittman is based out of atlanta, georgia, where he practices family therapy.  he has been active as a psychiatrist and practicing family therapist since 1962.  both of dr. pittman's daughters are psychologists.    

education.
research, community mental health, family therapy, denver, colorado, from a grant from the national institute of mental health;
medical residency, psychiatry, emory university;

publications.
books.
turning points: treating families in transition and crisis, frank pittman, m.d., a norton professional book, (hardcover), w. w. norton & company; 1st ed edition, may 1987, isbn 0393700402 , isbn 978-0393700404;
private lies: infidelity and betrayal of intimacy, frank pittman, m.d., w. w. norton & company; reprint edition november 1990, isbn 0393307077 , isbn 978-0393307078 ;
mentiras privadas (spanish edition), amorrortu editores, september 1994, isbn 950518543x , isbn 978-9505185436 ;
man enough: fathers, sons and the search for masculinity, frank pittman, m.d., perigee trade; reprint edition october 1, 1994, isbn 0399518835 , isbn 978-0399518836 ;
grow up!: how taking responsibility can make you a happy adult, golden guides from st. martin's press , isbn 1582380406 , isbn 978-1582380407 , july 30, 1999 ;
articles.
more scholarly articles, google scholar
"ask dr. frank", column, psychology today, march/april 1994 issue;
"ask dr. frank", psychology today, may/june 1994 issue;

presentations.
"what are men for, anyway?", reno, nevada, june 28, 2003, keynote address, smart marriages conference;
response to "the death of 'till death us do part': "marriage in the 20th century", july, 2002, keynote address, smart marriages conference;
myth and ritual in american life, a sloan center for working families, "ritual function and family dysfunction: the therapist's view", emory university;

references.




see also.
psychotherapy;
family therapy;
mental health;

external links.
media;
more news articles,google news
an interview with frank pittman, md, by victor yalom, phd, evolution of psychotherapy conference, 2000 (www.psychotherapy.net) ;
infidelity comes out of the closet, new york times, april 29, 1999;
infidelity reaches beyond having sex, by karen s. peterson, usa today, 1/8/2003 ;
dear ann: thanks for 47 years of advice, usa today, 06/23/2002;
marriage experts converge here; top tip is don't split, the atlanta journal-constitution, 06/21/06;
search for a soul mate, or love the one you're with?, 5/28/2003, usa today;
study: divorce, living together new norms, usa today;
why men drag their feet down the aisle, 06/26/2002, usa today;
cohabiting can make marriage an iffy proposition, even married, men may still feel less committed, july 8, 2002, usa today;
work & family: couples separate checking accounts, the wall street journal, february 24, 2005;

 






</doc>
<doc id="2876457" title="larraul" nonfiltered="657" processed="646" dbindex="664">
larraul  is a town and municipality located in the province of gipuzkoa, in the autonomous community of basque country, northern spain.

external links.
 official website  ;
 larraul in the bernardo estorn\e9s lasa - au\f1amendi encyclopedia (euskomedia fundazioa) ;















</doc>
<doc id="6179569" title="tia ling" nonfiltered="658" processed="647" dbindex="665">
 

tia ling is an asian adult film actress. she has recently started her career in adult movies, but is rapidly becoming well recognized. tia started out as a nude model willing to do pornographic films. tia lives in cleveland, ohio and has recently launched her own website. 

 

see also.

tialing.com;



</doc>
<doc id="195045" title="emperor go-shirakawa" nonfiltered="659" processed="648" dbindex="666">
emperor go-shirakawa (      go-shirakawa tenn ) (october 18, 1127   april 26, 1192) was the 77th emperor of japan, according to the traditional order of succession. he reigned from august 23, 1155 to september 5, 1158. his personal name was masahito (  ).

 genealogy .
he was the fourth son of emperor toba.  his mother was sh ko (  ), the daughter of fujiwara kinzane (    )
major consorts and children
 empress (ch g ): tokudaiji (fujiwara) ??
 consort (shinn -hi): minamoto atsushiko (?) (   );
 first son: imperial prince morihito (    ) (emperor nij );
 court lady: sanj  (fujiwara) s ko (?) (        );
 court lady: taira no shigeko (   );
 seventh son: imperial prince norihito (    ) (emperor takakura);
 consort: fujiwara naruko ?? (    );
 third son: prince mochihito (   );

life.

he was named after emperor shirakawa (go-,  , translates literally as "later", thus, "later emperor shirakawa").

he seized power steadily after the h gen rebellion; his reign commenced in 1155. in 1158, he abdicated, but continued to hold power as a cloistered emperor. he attempted to decrease the influence of the fujiwara clan and increased the power of the samurai. his policy allowed taira no kiyomori to seize power, and at the end of his life he allowed minamoto no yoritomo to establish the kamakura shogunate in kamakura, in the province of sagami, modern-day kanagawa.  the establishment of the shogunate (or bakufu) was the beginning of samurai control of japan for 700 years until the meiji restoration in the middle of the 19th century.

retired emperor toba expected him to be on the throne. when his brother, emperor konoe, died in 1155, go-shirakawa became emperor with support of toba and a powerful lord fujiwara no tadamichi, since they were against retired emperor sutoku and did not want his son to be the next emperor.  they expected go-shirakawa to keep the throne until his son, the future emperor nij  would be old enough succeed him. the coronation of go-shirakawa made the political tension between toba and sutoku stronger. at the beginning of go-shirakawa's reign toba continued to reign as a cloistered emperor until his death.

in 1156 toba died and soon afterwards the h gen rebellion arose.  go-shirakawa gained the support of samurai including minamoto no yoshitomo and taira no kiyomori, and they defeated the armies of sutoku. after the rebellion, go-shirakawa ruled japan by himself. in 1158 he abdicated to his son nij  and became cloistered emperor, through the reigns of five emperors (emperor nij , emperor rokuj , emperor takakura, emperor antoku, and emperor go-toba) until his death in 1192.

taira no kiyomori and go-shirakawa were on good terms initially. kiyomori began trade with china and supported go-shirakawa, not just militarily but also financially. two samurai clans, the taira and the minamoto, stood against each other, and the heiji rebellion occurred in 1159.  the minamoto lost and the taira seized power.  with kiyomori's power at its peak, the good relationship between kiyomori and go-shirakawa ended. go-shirakawa attempted a coup d'\e9tat to expel kiyomori in 1177 but failed. kiyomori forced go-shirakawa to stay in toba-in, the former palace of his father, emperor toba, in 1179. in 1178 kiyomori made imperial prince tokihito crown prince.  tokihito was his grandson, the child of emperor takakura and empress consort taira no tokuko, who was a daughter of kiyomori.

go-shirakawa planned to regain power, and secretly sent his son prince mochihito to deliver a message to the minamoto in which go-shirakawa proclaimed the taira as the enemy of the court and requested that the minamotos fight against them. in 1180 mochihito and minamoto no yorimasa started the first rebellion. it failed, but several other samurai followed their attempt. in 1181 kiyomori died and the decline of the taira began. go-shirakawa began ruling again as cloistered emperor. in 1183 minamoto no yoshinaka from musashi province defeated the taira and entered ky to. after internal struggles within the minamoto clan, minamoto no yoshitsune, a brother of yoritomo finally destroyed the taira clan entirely in 1185 at the battle of dan no ura.

go-shirakawa came to bad terms with yoritomo, and between them yoshitsune was sacrificed. yoritomo considered yoshitsune disloyal to him and finally in 1189 yoshitsune died in the battle of mutsu province. at the same time the  sh  fujiwara clan, the fujiwara clan in mutsu province, was destroyed because they supported yoshitsune against yoritomo, who claimed then the title of chief of all samurai. after the death of yoshitsune, go-shirakawa and yoritomo reconciled and go-shirakawa allowed yoritomo found a new shogunate.

 eras of his reign .
 ky ju;
 h gen;















</doc>
<doc id="8225594" title="philip stuart" nonfiltered="660" processed="649" dbindex="667">
philip stuart (1760   august 14, 1830) was an american politician and soldier.

stuart was born near fredericksburg, virginia and completed his preparatory education before moving to maryland.  he served during the american revolutionary war as a lieutenant in the 3rd continental light dragoons, and was wounded at eutaw springs on september 8, 1781.  he transferred to baylor s dragoons on november 9, 1782, and later served as a lieutenant in the second artillerists and engineers, beginning on june 5, 1798 and ending with his resignation on november 15, 1800.  he also served in the war of 1812

stuart was elected as a federalist to the twelfth and to the three succeeding congresses, serving from march 4, 1811 to march 3, 1819.  he died in washington, d.c., and is interred in the congressional cemetery.

references.
;












</doc>
<doc id="3937248" title="jesse atherton bynum" nonfiltered="661" processed="650" dbindex="668">
jessee atherton bynum (1797 - 1868) was a congressional representative from north carolina; born in halifax county, north carolina, may 23, 1797; attended princeton college in 1818 and 1819; studied law; was admitted to the bar and commenced practice in halifax, north carolina; member of the house of commons of north carolina in 1823, 1824, and 1827-1830; elected as a jacksonian to the twenty-third and twenty-fourth congresses and as a democrat to the two succeeding congresses (march 4, 1833-march 3, 1841); moved to alexandria, louisiana, where he engaged in agricultural pursuits; died in alexandria, la., september 23, 1868; interment in rapides cemetery, pineville, louisiana.

see also.
twenty-third united states congress;
twenty-fourth united states congress;
twenty-fifth united states congress;
twenty-sixth united states congress;
u.s. congress biographical directory entry;






</doc>
<doc id="1258898" title="richmond p. hobson, jr." nonfiltered="662" processed="651" dbindex="669">
richmond pearce hobson, jr. (1907 1966), son of rear admiral richmond pearson hobson, was an american-canadian author.  his most famous book was grass beyond the mountains, and his books the rancher takes a wife and nothing too good for a cowboy have inspired a cbc television program (named for the latter).







</doc>
<doc id="7409448" title="copper culture state park" nonfiltered="663" processed="652" dbindex="670">
copper culture state park is a 48 acre wisconsin state park in oconto.  the park contains a burial ground used by the old copper culture between 5,000 and 6,000 years ago.  artifacts and photographs from excavations here are displayed on the park grounds in the charles werrenbroeck museum, a 1924 farmhouse.  the park is managed by a non-profit organization rather than the wisconsin department of natural resources.  visitors do not require a state park pass at this site, but are encouraged to make a donation at the museum.

external links.
copper culture state park website;









</doc>
<doc id="5528835" title="the general is up" nonfiltered="664" processed="653" dbindex="671">
some of the information in this  has not been  and might not be reliable. it should be checked for inaccuracies and modified as needed, .
the general is up is a "novel set in modern africa" by peter nazareth. its story seems, at first glance, to be a fictionalised version of the expulsion of asians from idi amin's uganda in the 'seventies. but its writer sees it as being something more than this. the author was associate professor in iowa university's department of english and the afro-american studies programme, at the time of writing the novel, published by the calcutta (kolkata)-based writer's workshop in 1984. nazareth is a writer of goan origin, and the novel is set, in large part, among the expat community of the former portuguese colony of goa, which has had a large number of out-migrants scattered across the globe, including, in the recent past, in east africa and uganda.

about the book.

the setting is "damibia" set in "africa. to be precise, central africa" (p. 21). there, the president-general of the country has just announced that "all the east indians in the country have to leave by the next moon".

says an author's note to the book: "any resemblance to real events, persons or countries is an unfortunate coincidence." but not coincidentally, characters from the book have names like ronald d'mello, joe pereira, david d'costa, horace d'souza, among others, all names traditionally linked to the catholic community from the region of goa, which nazareth traces his roots to, and which has been heavy into out-migration for generations.

in its 30 chapters (besides an epilogue), the book focuses on "the general", the damibia institute, guerilla attacks, portrayals of inter-racial equations in post-colonial east africa, playing the game of tombola a students' demo, a party, david's departure from africa, the sad farewell at the airport, and more. nazareth has an interesting style of narration. when set amidst a real (though fictionalised) community, this adds to the readability.

publishers.

this novel was published by the calcutta-based innovative publishing firm writer's workshop, a small virtually one-man organisation that published the early creative writing from a number of persons who went on become prominent in their field. writer's workshop printed its books "on an indian-made hand-operated machine... on map-litho paper made in india". its books have been usually hand-bound with cotton handloom sari cloth woven in india, giving them a distinctive appearance. this book was published under its greenbird series, focussing on fiction. when it came out in the mid-1980s, it was priced at rs 80 (hardback) and rs 60 for its paperback versions. 

it covers 190 pages, and has a brief but interesting three-page glossary that looks at terms in swahili and luganda (the languages of east africa), apart from  konkani, the local language of goa. nazareth notes that in the ex-british colonies of east and central africa "almost all goans are roman catholics and speak english as a first language, though some of them freely throw in konkani words or expressions".

the author's background.

at the time of writing this book (mid-eighties), uganda-born nazareth who had a honours degree in english from makerere university college and had done graduate work at leeds university in england, had been a senior finance officer until he left uganda in early 1973. he shifted to yale university on the seymour lustman fellowship. the author's biography says this was "granted  because of his novel, in brown mantle".

from yale, he shifted to iowa city as a honorary fellow of the international writing programme and a visiting lecturer in the afro-american studies programme.

incidentally, nazareth's work has been translated into a number of languages -- including hungarian, polish, japanese, korean, bengali, hebrew, arabic, serbo-croatian, portuguese, and konkani. nazareth also teaches a widely-publicized course on elvis as anthology at the of iowa.

nazareth's other work.

apart from the general is up and in a brown mantle, nazareth's other publications include the work of literary criticism titled literature and society in modern africa that was later republished by the northwestern university press as an african view of literature.

he has also written two radio plays and the third world writer: his social responsibility, also literary criticism.  he has been prolific in the fields of criticism and short fiction, which, by the mid-eighties itself, had appeared in "over a dozen anthologies and 150 issues of forty journals published worldwide, including short story international, english studies in africa, callaloo, afri-scope, the journal of commonwealth literature, okike and world literature today." (source: author's biography in the general is up.)

nazareth has also edited african writing today, a double-issue of the pacific quarterly moana and goan literature: a modern reader. the latter is, till date, one of the most impressive collection of goan writing under one cover, in a range of languages and includes a great deal of writing from the otherwise under-noticed goan diaspora. goan literature: a modern reader was published as an issue of the journal of south asian literature.

at the time of writing this work, three of nazareth's plays were broadcast by the british broadcasting corporation.

the writer's perspective.

the general is up was re-published by tsar books, toronto in 1991. author peter nazareth in a message posted on the goaresearchnet says he prefers this edition to the writers' workshop one, and "it is slightly but significantly revised".

nazareth disagrees with an earlier comment that the view that the novel is a "thinly-disguised fictionalised account of the expulsion of asians from idi amin's uganda in the early seventies." instead, he sees it as being "largely about how to deconstruct the media, including words and therefore the novel itself since a novel is made out of words, to find out what is going on". 

this is a comment from the writer on his work: "nowhere in the novel is "the general" ever named, let alone called "idi amin". in fact, the word "general" occurs several times in the novel where it has no connection with a military man. the word is also a typographical error in the certificate of citizenship of one of the two main characters, david gerald d'costa. the word "general" in the title contradicts the word "up" because the latter is specific and directional and the former is not."

external links.

 google links for the general is up;



</doc>
<doc id="2896362" title="barrundia" nonfiltered="665" processed="654" dbindex="672">
barrundia is a town and municipality located in the province of \c1lava, in the basque country, northern spain.

 external link .
 barrundia in the bernardo estorn\e9s lasa - au\f1amendi encyclopedia ;
















</doc>
<doc id="2962950" title="l\f8v-ham fotball" nonfiltered="666" processed="655" dbindex="673">


l\f8v-ham is a sports club from fyllingsdalen in bergen, norway. its origin are two local teams in fyllingsdalen called l\f8v\e5sen and hamrelien. on december 29, 1975 those clubs were merged, choosing the name l\f8v-ham. in march 1999 l\f8v-ham was divided into a football division, l\f8v-ham fotball, and a handball division, l\f8v-ham h\e5ndball.

l\f8v-ham is still most notable as a football club, with more than 600 members. the senior football team currently plays in the 1st division (adeccoligaen), and was newly promoted for the 2005 season. l\f8v-ham saw their first official supporter group created in december 2005, called selskapsl\f8vene (the party lions)

on january 28 2006 l\f8v-ham reached a milestone by beating bergen's only premier league club brann for the first time, 3-2 in a friendly. 
 current squad .



external links.
 official site;











</doc>
<doc id="2626591" title="charles benjamin incledon" nonfiltered="667" processed="656" dbindex="674">
charles benjamin incledon (1763 february 11th 1826, worcester) was an english singer, son of a doctor in cornwall, and began as a choirboy at exeter but then went into the navy. his fine tenor voice, however, attracted general attention, and in 1783 he determined to seek his fortune on the stage. after various provincial appearances he made a great success in 1790 at covent garden, and thenceforth was the principal english tenor of his day. he sang both in opera and in oratorio, but his chief popularity lay in his delivery of ballads, such as sally in our alley, blackeyed susan, the arethusa, and anything of a bold and manly type. he toured in america in 1817; and on retiring in 1822 from the operatic stage, he travelled through the provinces with an entertainment called the wandering melodist.

references.
;







</doc>
<doc id="1855522" title="battle of dead buffalo lake" nonfiltered="668" processed="657" dbindex="676">


the battle of dead buffalo lake was fought between united states forces and sioux indians of the dakota territory.

after defeating a combined force of santee and teton sioux forces at the battle of big mound, the native forces fled that field and were chased for several miles by u.s. cavalry. general henry hastings sibley, commanding the u.s. forces, marched 14 miles before catching up to the natives the next day, july 26. 

the sioux were ready for battle, but neither side made any initial attacks. the heaviest fighting occurred when the warriors attempted to flank the u.s. camp, but their attack was called off after encountering resistance from u.s. infantry and mounted forces.  the indians withdrew from the field and were again in retreat with sibley's forces close behind.

sources.
 prepared and published under the supervision of the board of commissioners appointed by the act of the legislature of minnesota of april 16, 1889., "minnesota in the civil and indian wars 1861-1865", 1890, pioneer press company. ;
 http://www.cr.nps.gov/hps/abpp/battles/nd002.htm;






</doc>
<doc id="1098866" title="lai people's party" nonfiltered="669" processed="658" dbindex="677">
lai people's party, a political party in the indian state of mizoram. lpp is active in the chhimutuipui east district. lpp holds one (of 27) seat in the lai autonomous district council.



</doc>
<doc id="5798733" title="gy?ri eto fc" nonfiltered="670" processed="659" dbindex="678">


gy ri eto fc is a hungarian football club team.

home colors are white shirt, dark green shorts, and dark green socks. 
current players on team are :

gk moln\e1r p\e9ter;
df zs\f3k j\f3zsef;
d-mf bank istv\e1n;
d-mf m\fcller zsolt;
df regedei csaba;
mf vincze ott\f3;
d-mf j\e4kl antal;
d-mf bank istv\e1n;
fw-f mf gran\e1t bal\e1zs;
df m\e1tyus j\e1nos;
fw bajz\e1t p\e9ter;
mf ny\e1ri tibor;
gk stevanovic sasa;
mf czanik k\e1roly;
mf vir\e1g alad\e1r;
gk somogyi csaba;
fw szab\f3 zsolt;
df stark p\e9ter;

external links.
 official club website  ;












</doc>
<doc id="6892895" title="maria lopez (passions)" nonfiltered="671" processed="660" dbindex="679">
maria lopez is a minor fictional character on the nbc soap opera passions. she was played by actress marta dubois in 2004.

character history.
maria is pilar lopez-fitzgerald's younger sister who lives in mexico. when pilar became pregnant with her fifth child paloma after being abandoned by her husband martin fitzgerald she sent her infant daughter to live with maria.

maria ran an inn in puerto arena, mexico unaware her surgically altered brother-in-law martin and his mistress katherine barrett were living under the assumed names of bob and ellen wheeler.

family.
parents.
antonio lopez (father);
maria lopez (mother);

siblings.
florencia lopez (sister);
pilar lopez-fitzgerald (sister);
francisco lopez (brother);
 unnamed lopez (sibling);
 unnamed lopez (sibling);
 unnamed lopez (sibling);
 unnamed lopez (sibling);

(maria is one of 8 children)

nieces & nephews.
antonio brian lopez-fitzgerald (nephew, via pilar);
luis lopez-fitzgerald (nephew, via pilar);
theresa lopez-fitzgerald (niece, via pilar);
miguel lopez-fitzgerald (nephew, via pilar);
paloma lopez-fitzgerald (niece, via pilar);

other relatives.
marty lopez-fitzgerald (great-nephew, via luis);
 ethan lopez-fitzgerald crane (great-nephew, via theresa);
jane winthrop (great-niece, via theresa);
maria lopez-fitzgerald (great-niece, via miguel);

external links.
soapcentral.com|ps online;
minor passions characters;




</doc>
<doc id="2024566" title="teltron tube" nonfiltered="672" processed="661" dbindex="680">


a teltron tube is used to fire electrons.  it is a type electron deflexion tube, that is it bends the path of the electrons.  when fired, they usually emit a fine bluish line which can be seen more clearly in the dark.

they are usually used to teach because they show how an electron ray is effected by electric fields and by magnetic fields.

motions in fields.
motion of particles in an electric field are parabolic, whereas they are circular in magnetic fields.

the apparatus.
the 'teltron' apparatus consists of a teltron type electron deflexion tube, a teltron stand, eht power supply (0 - 5000 v dc, variable).

external links.
 http://lpc1.clpccd.cc.ca.us/lpc/physics/pdf/phys2/eoverm.pdf;
 http://www.fbise.edu.pk/curr/hsscsyll/physics.doc;




</doc>
<doc id="4431503" title="church of the risen christ" nonfiltered="673" processed="662" dbindex="681">

church of the risen christ is a roman catholic church in singapore. it is located in the toa payoh housing estate and was founded in 1971.

history.
the growing roman catholic community of toa payoh originally conducted their religious activities at the ho ping centre and then at the social function hall of the hdb east area office. the first mass was celebrated in the function hall on 6 april 1969.

in june of 1969, religious bodies in singapore were invited by the singapore government to tender for a piece of land of 40,000 square feet. a month later, the government announced that a roman catholic church would be built at the junction of toa payoh central and lorong 4. the announcement sparked off a massive challenge of raising $450,000 for a church building, which fell on the shoulders of the late rev fr pierre abrial and rev fr adrian anthony.

while contributions were forthcoming from benefactors and parishioners, fr abrial had to make personal visits to parishioners to ask for further donations, some of which were collected over 18 months instalments. by mid-june 1971, they were only some $30,000 short of the target. this shortage was eventually filled by the parishioners over the next few months. about two weeks later, the church of the risen christ was officially opened on 3 july 1971 by his grace the late then-archbishop monsigneur michael olcomendy.
	  	 
originally, the church was to be known as church of the resurrection, but was changed to church of the risen christ as the former term was found to be rather abstract and impersonal. a quotation from the souvenir magazine published in conjunction with the church s official opening cites the following rationale:  the name risen christ expresses in a better way the unique character of the easter event. we believe in a risen christ. we believe that he is alive and that we have a relationship with god through him. our church stands as a permanent witness to such a faith . 

situated in the centre of the new satellite town, church of the risen christ was meant to serve a population of 200,000 middle and low-income flat owners. as toa payoh town estate grew in its affluence and size, so did the church and its parish community.

in an effort to reduce noise from the road traffic nearby, church of the risen christ became among the first roman catholic church to install an air-conditioning system within its premises in 1974.

the grotto was later built in 1990 in honour of the virgin mary. upon its completion, the grotto was blessed by his grace, then archbishop gregory yong on 15 august 1990, the feast of the assumption. the grotto has since become a center of devotions and prayers for individuals, families and church groups. the wooden shed and benches were later added during the last renovation.

as time went on by, space constraints posed a growing concern. catechism classes for children were conducted in places like the sacristy and kitchen, thereby impeding on the priests  privacy and opportunity for interaction. hence, the church decided to build a new extension that would meet the needs of the growing community. construction on the new 4 storey extension began in early 2003. costing approximately $3.5 million, the new building houses the priest quarters and kitchen and contains 13 rooms that double up as classrooms and meeting rooms.

at the same time, renovations within the church were carried out. the flight of stairs leading up to the main entrance was replaced by a new staircase with an extension built to house a youth room and an auditorium. a mural painting of jesus preaching to a small crowd with the lake galilee in the background adorns the inner wall of the extension. to reduce renovation cost and time, layering of new floor tiles over existing ones was carried out. small stained windows depicting the passion of the lord replaced the previous orange lanterns with illustrations of the scenes of the passion. the old seating benches gave way to sturdy new ones, while the use of hymn books and bible leaflets were discontinued with the use of projectors and television screens displaying liturgical prayers, bible readings, hymns and announcements during mass. the church opened the new extension for viewing to the parishioners in november 2003.

mass schedule.

masses in english;
saturday: 6.30am; and 6.00pm (mass of anticipation);
sunday: 7.00am; 9.30am; 11.00am; and 6.00pm ;
monday to friday: 6.30am; 12.45pm (every 1st friday only); and 6.00pm;

mass in madarin	;
sunday: 8.15am;

mass in tamil;
1st sunday: 7.15pm;

charismatic mass;
1st monday: 8.00pm;

music.
choirs.
choirs at the church of the risen christ sing a varied repertoire of hymns and songs, from contemporary works to traditional hymns and chants. all choirs at the parish fall under the jurisdiction of the liturgical music committee, which is a branch overseeing all maters pertaining to liturgical music under the archdiocesean liturgy commission of the archdiocese of singapore.

organs.
the parish houses 2 allen digital church organs. the choir loft organ was purchased in the early 1990s for sunday services and choir accompaniment while the other allen organ was purchased in 2001 to replace the ageing organ in the sanctuary used for weekday services.

organisation.
the church has a parish population of 8000 served by 3 priests:
rev fr john sim (parish priest);
rev fr louis loiseau mep;
rev fr adrian yeo;

ministries.
liturgical committee;
board of wardens;
lector ministry;
altar servers society;
eucharistic ministers;
choirs;
cantate domino choir sings at the sunday 11 am mass under the direction of bernard goh;
christus laudatur voce choir sings at the sunset 6pm mass under the direction of stephen and mona sayson ;
shalom choir sings at the sunday 9.30 am mass under the direction of esther leong;
pastoral care committee;
society of saint vincent de paul;
sodality of st joseph prayer group;
ministry to the sick;
divine mercy prayer group;
legion of mary - praesidia;
mary, shrine of the spirit;
mother of chaste love;
mother of the risen christ;
our lady of immaculate conception (malayalam praesidium);
mother of peace;
mother of our saviour;
mother of youth (junior praesidium);
youth committee;
mustard seed;
catholic youth fellowship;
risen christ children s league;
faith formation committee;
cathecists;
rcia planning committee;
rciy (youth);
charismatic prayer group;
library;
bible sharing & study group;
children s liturgy;
family life committee;
family focus group;
vocation promotion team (vpt);
natural family planning (nfp);
cana ministry;
church services committee;
canteen group;
willing hands;
media committee;
publicity ministry;
mandarin-speaking committee;
chinese lay apostolate organization committee;
voices of the risen christ;
chinese dance group;
legion of mary;
mandarin rcia;
wardens;
catholic family and social movement;
st. rosa chinese bible sharing group;
indian committee;
the indian catholic movement;
indian catholic youth movement;

external links.
 church website;




</doc>
<doc id="3599557" title="fatima jinnah colony" nonfiltered="674" processed="663" dbindex="682">
fatima jinnah colony is one of the neighborhoods of new karachi town in karachi, sindh, pakistan. 

there are several ethnic groups in new karachi town including urdu speakers, punjabis, sindhis, kashmiris, seraikis, pakhtuns, balochs, memons, bohras, ismailis. over 99% of the population is muslim. the population of new karachi town is estimated to be nearly one million.
	


 external links .
 karachi website.
 karachi new karachi town.






</doc>
<doc id="4797408" title="el caj\f3n dam" nonfiltered="675" processed="664" dbindex="683">


the el caj\f3n dam (in spanish, dique el caj\f3n) is a dam in the center-west of the province of c\f3rdoba, argentina, near capilla del monte, at . it is built on the course of the dolores river, at about 910 m above mean sea level. the wall of the dam is 39 m tall, and creates an artificial lake with a surface area of 1.45 1.8 km\b2 and a volume of 8 million m\b3.

el caj\f3n is made of concrete and lies on granitic terrain. it was built between 1987 and 1993. it is employed as a reservoir of fresh water, to regulate the flow of the river, for fishing (carp and silverside), sailing, canoeing, and windsurfing.

references.
 dique el caj\f3n at the official website of c\f3rdoba province.
 enjoy argentina   touristic information.







</doc>
<doc id="9173593" title="shakespeare, new mexico" nonfiltered="676" processed="665" dbindex="684">
shakespeare is a ghost town in the state of new mexico.  founded as a rest stop along a stagecoach route, it later became a mining town.  it was abandoned when the mines closed in 1929, and is currently part of a priavtely-owned ranch.

reference.
ghosttowns.com page;




</doc>
<doc id="7636668" title="gilbert herdt" nonfiltered="677" processed="666" dbindex="685">
gilbert herdt (born february 24, 1949)  is an american cultural anthropologist who specializes in sexuality and gender identity-based cultures. his studies of the 'sambia' people -- a pseudonym he created -- of papua new guinea analyzes how culture and society create sexual meanings and practices. in the united states, herdt has also studied adolescents and their families, the emergence of hiv and gay culture, and the role that social policy plays in sexual health. 

a ph.d holder, herdt is the professor of human sexuality studies and anthropology and director of the program in human sexuality studies and national sexuality resource center at san francisco state university. he has taught at stanford university, the university of chicago, the university of amsterdam, and the university of washington.  in early 2000s, herdt cofounded the institute on sexuality, social inequality and health that studies all forms of sexuality and discrimination that affect community building, sexual culture and sexual health. 

a prolific writer, herdt has written and edited some 30 books, and more than 100 scientific papers. he is also the general editor of worlds of desire, and an associate editor of journal of culture, sexuality, and health, journal of men and masculinities, and transaction: journal of social science and modern society. 

awards.
herdt is the recipient of various awards and research grants, including:
 pre-doctoral fulbright scholarship to australia;
 william simon henry guggenheim memorial fellowship  ;
 fellow of american anthropological association, international academy of sex research, and royal anthropological institute (uk).

publications.
herdt has authored and edited nearly 30 books and published more than 100 scientific papers.  some of his books include the following:
 adolescence in the pacific island societies (co-edited);
 children of horizons: how gay and lesbian teens are leading a new way out of the closet (co-authored);
 culture and sexual risk: anthropological perspectives on aids (co-authored);
 ezra pound and china (co-authored);
 gay and lesbian aging: research and future directions (co-authored);
 gay and lesbian youth ;
 guardians of the flutes: idioms of masculinity (now in its third edition);
 intimate communications: erotics and the study of culture (co-authored);
 ritualized homosexuality in melanesia ;
 sambia sexual culture: essays from the field;
 same sex, different cultures: gays and lesbians across cultures (translated into japanese) ;
 secrecy and cultural reality: utopian ideologies of the new guinea men's house (co-authored);
 sexual inequalities: subjectivities, agency and social change;
 sexual inequality, youth empowerment, and the gsa: a community study in california;
 something to tell you: the road families travel with a gay child (co-authored, and translated into portuguese and spanish);
 the religious imagination in new guinea ;
 the sambia : ritual and gender in new guinea ;
 the sambia : ritual, sexuality, and change in papua new guinea (case studies in cultural anthropology);
 the time of aids;
 third sex, third gender: beyond sexual dimorphism in culture and history.

main source: librarything

references.












external links.
national sexuality resource center (nsrc);

</doc>
<doc id="426201" title="fred dean" nonfiltered="678" processed="667" dbindex="686">
frederick rudolph dean (born february 24, 1952) was an american football player, whose career started with the san diego chargers. in 1981, he was acquired in a mid-season trade and eventually helped the san francisco 49ers win two super bowls in the 1980s.

his first game was a key match-up against the dallas cowboys. dean played after only a couple of practices and was still able to apply pressure and repeatedly sack cowboys qb danny white. his first home game for the 49ers was against the los angeles rams. the game was won by the 49ers and the first win against the rams in candlestick park, 20-17.

the 49ers would go on to win the super bowl that year, and steve sabol (nfl films) is quoted in 2006 as saying that dean's acquisition was the last meaningful in-season trade, in that it affected the destination of the lombardi trophy. dean was also a key player on the 49ers 1984-5 super bowl team.













</doc>
<doc id="2381729" title="san isidro, moraz\e1n" nonfiltered="679" processed="668" dbindex="687">
san isidro is a municipality in the moraz\e1n department of el salvador. 



</doc>
<doc id="6195971" title="enrico rastelli" nonfiltered="680" processed="669" dbindex="688">

enrico rastelli (born 19 december 1896, in samara, russia   died 13 december 1931, bergamo, italy) was an italian juggler, acrobat and performer who, despite having his career suddenly cut short at the age of 34 years, is widely considered to have been the world's greatest juggler.

biography.
rastelli was born in samara, russia into a circus family. both his parents were performers and it did not take long before the young rastelli decided to join the family business. he received rigorous training in a variety of circus disciplines including acrobatics, balancing and aerial skills. his performance debut was at the age of 13 as part of his parents' aerial act, however his passion and talent lay with juggling. he practiced his juggling skills tirelessly and by the age of 19 was performing a solo juggling routine. his earliest performances involved the manipulation of sticks and balls in a typical japanese style; he even wore a kimono as his costume.

many jugglers of rastelli's day were of the gentleman juggler style. dressed in formal evening attire, they would juggle everyday objects that you might find at the dinner table, including plates, hat and cane, loaves of bread, bottles and even chairs. rastelli instead chose to restrict himself to objects more suited to throwing and catching, typically plates, sticks and balls. in doing so, he was able to achieve levels of technical skill far beyond that of his contemporaries. furthermore, his choice of three simple props is reflected in the props of choice of most modern jugglers, with balls, clubs, (replacing sticks) and rings (replacing plates) being used by professional and amateur jugglers alike. 

in 1917 rastelli married harriet, a highwire artist. by the early 1920s he was becoming quite a star, touring europe and america, amazing audiences and commanding an ever increasing salary. in this period he chose to perform in a silk costume adding static balance tricks to his energetic performances. during the later part of the 1920s he made the move from the circus ring to the more lucrative vaudeville theatres. his style changed again, performing in full soccer strip he would juggle up to five footballs. with his growing fortune, rastelli, his wife and their three children purchased a large villa in bergamo.



while touring europe in 1931 rastelli's gums suddenly started bleeding and shortly afterwards he contracted pneumonia. he quickly returned home, however his condition worsened and he died in the early hours of the morning, 13 december 1931, as a result of anemia. 

his funeral took place in bergamo, attended by thousands. a life-sized statue to rastelli was erected within his tomb, depicting him in a familiar pose, spinning a ball on his raised finger. vanity fair magazine, in its february, 1932 issue, (page 49), ran a full-page photograph of rastelli with the following caption:

one of the most sensational attractions in the international world of vaudeville was the juggler enrico rastelli. in his twenty years devotion to his craft this son of italy elevated it, for probably the first time, to what was unmistakably an art. the accomplishment of this was due not only to the amazing agility and complexity of the juggling itself, (he used mostly spheroids, of various sizes and colors) but to the incredible ease of his execution, and the visual impression made on the audience. rastelli, who was the third generation and the most famous of the jugglers by that name, died in bergamo, italy, shortly before this photograph went to press.

rastelli's contribution to juggling is unparalleled, being able to juggle 8 plates, 8 sticks and 10 balls. he was also a master of 'combination' style tricks, being able to juggle 6 plates, while spinning a hoop around one foot and skipping a rope which was spun by an assistant. his influence is still felt today, with most jugglers restricting themselves to the use of clubs, rings and balls. although his technical abilities have now been exceeded, no-one has surpassed the level of fame which he worked so tirelessly to achieve.

 sources .

;
;
;

external links.
- videos of rastelli.;








</doc>
<doc id="3516595" title="hms charybdis (88)" nonfiltered="681" processed="670" dbindex="689">

hms charybdis was a dido-class cruiser of the royal navy. she was built by cammell laird shipyard (birkenhead, uk), with the keel being laid down on 9 november 1939.  she was launched on 17 september 1940, and commissioned 3 december 1941.

one of two sisters (the other was, appropriately, scylla, charybdis was originally completed with four twin 4.5 in mk iii in ud mk iii mountings because of a shortage of 5.25 in mountings. 

the forward superstructure was considerably modified to accommodate these and also to increase crew spaces. naturally they were known as the 'toothless terrors', but proved much better anti-aircraft ships than their sisters armed with the more cumbersome and less satisfactory 5.25 in aa guns.

history.
charybdis service was entirely during world war ii, when she gained the following battle honours:
 malta convoys 1942;
 north africa 1942;
 salerno 1943;
 atlantic 1943;
 english channel 1943;
 biscay 1943;

after trials charybdis joined the home fleet and at the end of march 1942 she took part in the minelaying operation s.n.87.

next month she was transferred to the north atlantic command, force "h" and sailed for gibraltar. her duties were to escort aircraft carriers delivering aircraft reinforcements to the besieged island of malta. the aircraft were flown off the carriers when within range of the island, and the ships returned to gibraltar. several convoys were sent with the carriers uss wasp, hms eagle and hms argus in force "w" for operations l.b. and salient.

in june 1942 charybdis took part in operation harpoon and vigorous. this operation tried to supply food and mat\e9riel to malta by sending a convoy from gibraltar at the same time as a convoy from egypt (vigorous), thus dividing the attacking forces. the vigorous convoy was decimated, including the loss of her sister ship hermione, torpedoed by german submarine u205.

in july 1942 charybdis covered operations pinpoint and insect, two more carrier deliveries of aircraft to malta. by august 1942 charybdis escorted the aircraft carrier hms eagle in the malta convoy pedestal.

this 15 ship convoy was intended to break the blockade of malta, and had a most powerful escort with two battleships, four aircraft carriers, seven cruisers and twenty six destroyers. losses were high with hms eagle sunk by torpedoes from german submarine u73 and the convoy under constant air attack. however, five merchant ships including the damaged tanker ss ohio arrived in malta. the ohios cargo of fuel oil allowed the aircraft, submarines and warships based in malta to continue operations and deprive rommel of vital supplies in north africa. august also saw operation baritone (further deliveries of aircraft to malta).

in september and october charybdis was on patrol in the atlantic and searching for german raiders and blockade runners. at the end of october she took part operation train, again covering aircraft reinforcements to malta. on 25 november 1942 she was allocated to the 12th cruiser squadron in force "h" and sailed from gibraltar for algiers carrying the allied force h.q., operation torch - the landings in morocco and algeria.

on 12 december 1942 charybdis sailed for the united kingdom to re-join the home fleet. for the first three months of 1943 she was in the scapa flow area, covering minelaying operations and patrolling in the north sea but in april 1943 she was transferred temporarily to the plymouth command and proceeded to cover convoys and patrol in the bay of biscay. charybdis was again back in gibraltar in august 1943 and from there escorted mediterranean convoys.

in september she was in force "v" for the salerno landings (operation avalanche) and landed troops (including general eisenhower) brought from tripoli. she returned to plymouth the following month. further patrols in the bay of biscay followed.

operation tunnel.
in late 1943, the british authorities were aware of the approach of the german blockade runner, m\fcnsterland, which was carrying an important cargo of latex and strategic metals. the germans had a well-rehearsed procedure for escorting such vessels. the british reacted by executing operation tunnel, a standard operation whereby available ships would attempt to intercept.

on 21 october 1943, charybdis and destroyers hms grenville, rocket and four hunt class destroyers (hms limbourne, wensleydale, talybont and stevenstone) intercepted m\fcnsterland off ushant, brittany. the force was attacked at night by the german 4th torpedo boat flotilla (five elbing class torpedo boats), which was escorting the blockade runner.

charybdis was almost immediately torpedoed by the german torpedo boats t23 and t27. hms limbourne was also hit during this action and had to be sunk by hms rocket. the german force escaped unharmed. charybdis sank in position , with the loss of 30 officers and 432 ratings just off the north coast of brittany. the m\fcnsterland eventually ran aground off cap blanc nez and was destroyed.

soon after the sinking, the bodies of 21 royal navy and royal marine men were washed up on the island of guernsey. the german occupation authorities buried them with full military honours and this became the opportunity for the islanders to demonstrate their loyalty to britain and their opposition to the nazi occupiers. about 5000 attended the funeral. subsequent military funerals were closed to civilians.

the wrecks of charybdis and limbourne have recently been found. the charybdis was located in 1993, 83 metres deep.

see hms charybdis for other ships of this name.

external links.
 charybdis funeral and operation tunnel;
 service history of george smith, who died in charybdis;











</doc>
<doc id="6884204" title="isshman bracey" nonfiltered="682" processed="671" dbindex="690">
 
isshman bracey , along with tommy johnson was the center of a small jackson, mississippi group of blues musicians in the 1920s. his music had the rough vigor of the freer mississippi delta music.

in the early 1960s bracey was located by blues music historians and interviewed. at that time he was still playing , but as  he had joined the church in the late 1940s he has played only sacred music and gospel songs.

history.
bracey was born in 1900 not frar from jactkon and became interested in playing music early. he began recording in 1928. at that time his style had not fully formed and his performances varied considerably, probably in his attempts to become more commercially successful. he was most effective as a singer with tommy johnson serving as his accompanyist when he recorded his first sessions in memphis.

bracey's earliest blues "saturday night blues" and "left alone blues", recorded in 1928, used interesting variations in the usual three line verse form. bracey was one of the few mississippi bluesmen who sang with a nasal tone without embellishment. in "saturday night blues" he used on of the conventional infidelity themes, but he changed the form of the verses to fit a newer melodic concept. his lyrics loosen up enough to sing about skin creams and powder advertised as being able to lighten dark skin.

when he recorded in 1930. his voice had darkened and he tried to use a falsetto voice in "woman woman blues" with an octave leap in the second line but the effect was clumsy and unsteady.

after joining the church, bracey had no plans to play outside of jackson. he played exclusively for the church and the years when blues were a deep influence on his life.
see also.
tommy johnson;

</doc>
<doc id="1447381" title="nbt" nonfiltered="683" processed="672" dbindex="691">
for the chemical nbt, see nitro blue tetrazolium chloride.;

nbt (sometimes netbt, or more commonly known as netbios over tcp/ip) is a networking protocol that allows legacy computer applications relying on the netbios api to be used on modern tcp/ip networks.
netbios was developed in the early 1980s, targeting very small networks (about a dozen computers.) some applications still use netbios, and do not scale well in today's networks of hundreds of computers when netbios is run over netbeui. when properly configured, nbt allows those applications to be run on large tcp/ip networks (including the whole internet) without change. 

nbt is defined by the rfc 1001 and rfc 1002 standard documents.

 services .
netbios provides three distinct services:
 name service for name registration and resolution;
 session service for connection-oriented communication;
 datagram distribution service for connectionless communication;

nbt implements all of those services.

name service.

in netbios, each participant must register on the network using a unique name of at most 16 characters.
in legacy networks, when a new application wanted to register a name, it had to broadcast a message saying
"is anyone currently using that name?" and wait for an answer. if no answer came back, it was safe to
assume that the name was not in use. however, the wait timeout was a few seconds, making the name registration
a very lengthy process, as the only way of knowing that a name was not registered was to not receive any answer.

nbt can implement a central repository, or name service, that records all name registrations. an application wanting
to register a name would therefore contact the name server (which has a known network address) and ask whether the
name is already registered, using a "name query" packet. this is much faster, as the name server returns a negative response immediately if
the name is not already in the database, meaning it is available. the name service, according to rfcs 1001 and 1002, is called netbios naming service or nbns. microsoft's wins service is just an implementation of nbns.

the packet formats of the name service are identical to dns.  the key differences are the addition of netbios "node status" query, dynamic registration and conflict marking packets.  they are encapsulated in udp. later implementation includes an optional scope part of the name, making netbios name hierarchical like dns, but this is seldom used.

in addition, to start a session or to send a datagram to a particular host rather than to broadcast the datagram, nbt will have to determine the ip address of the host with a given netbios name; this is done by broadcasting a "name query" packet, and/or sending it to the netbios name server.  the response will have the ip address of the host with that name.

it is interesting to note that nbns is one of the first proper dynamic peer-to-peer distributed name registration services.  the reputation of the nbns protocol was brought into disrepute by microsoft: it earned a bad name for being 'chatty', swamping networks with dynamic registration traffic on multiple protocols (ipx/spx, netbeui and tcp/ip) as people badly misconfigured their machines and their networks.  the principles implemented in nbns have been reimplemented many times, including in such systems as zeroconf and mobileip.

session service.
session mode lets two computers establish a connection for a "conversation," allows larger messages to be handled, and provides error detection and recovery.

sessions are established by exchanging packets. the computer establishing the session attempts to make a tcp connection to port 139 on the computer with which the session is to be established.  if the connection is made, the computer establishing the session then sends over the connection a "session request" packet with the netbios names of the application establishing the session and the netbios name to which the session is to be established.  the computer with which the session is to be established will respond with a "negative session response" indicating that no session can be established (either because that computer isn't listening for sessions being established to that name or because no resources are available to establish a session to that name) or a "positive session response" indicating that a session can be established.

data is transmitted during an established session by session message packets.

tcp handles flow control and retransmission of all session service packets, and the dividing of the data stream over which the packets are transmitted into ip datagrams small enough to fit in link-layer packets.

sessions are closed by closing the tcp connection.

datagram distribution service.
datagram mode is "connectionless"; netbios datagrams are sent over udp.  a datagram is sent with a "direct unique" or "direct group" packet if it's being sent to a particular netbios name, or a "broadcast" packet if it's being sent to all netbios names on the network.

 see also .
 samba;
 server message block;
 dns;
 ldap;
 nis;
 wins;

external links.
  - open-source program to scan ip networks for netbios name information;

----
nbt is also an initialism, standing for "next big thing". digerati-speak for emerging technology believed to be significant in some way.






</doc>
<doc id="1716368" title="non-interactive demo" nonfiltered="684" processed="673" dbindex="692">
 
a non-interactive demo is a term used to describe prolonged commercials or promotions. static game content, fmv or technology demos that are intended to illustrate the power of a new product are often referred to as a non-interactive demo.




</doc>
<doc id="610832" title="hard core logo" nonfiltered="685" processed="674" dbindex="693">

hard core logo is a canadian mockumentary adapted by noel baker from the novel of the same name by author michael turner. director bruce mcdonald illustrates the self-destruction of punk rock. 

the film, released in 1996, documents a once-popular punk band, hard core logo. the band is composed of suicidal lead singer joe dick (hugh dillon), fame-tempted guitarist billy tallent (callum keith rennie), schizophrenic bass player john oxenberger (john pyper-ferguson) and drummer pipefitter (bernie coulson). 

julian richings plays bucky haight, dick's idol. molly parker plays a member of the riot grrrl band jenifur.

several notable punk musicians, including art bergmann, joey shithead and joey ramone, play themselves in cameos. canadian television personality terry david mulligan also has a cameo, playing a fictionalized version of himself. 

synopsis.



punk aficionados can't help but see a little bit of themselves in each character.

macdonald demonstrates the death of punk through the course of events portrayed in the film. just as transplanting wildflowers guarantees their destruction, the desperation with which lead singer joe dick tries to recapture the glory days of hard core logo literally kills punk. the circumstances are void of the dynamics which spawn the culture, and to keep a semblance of the spirit alive, joe resorts to incanting the name of his role model, punk demigod, bucky haight. he claims that haight has been the victim of gun violence - losing one (or both) of his legs - and gives the impetus for going on this last tour a romantic, even noble appearance.

bucky haight represents original punk. he did not pursue a lifestyle which showcased benchmark characteristics of the culture, but was rather an individual who lived through the formative circumstances, and was able to translate the experience into music. his alleged mutilation is joe dick's way of acknowledging that the original punk culture has ceased to exist.

in fact, bucky haight has retired to a life of comfortable solitude. he has matured past punk, and lives on a farm. he expresses anger toward dick for claiming he has been shot. to illustrate his lack of sentiment toward the past, he gives hard core logo guitarist, billy tallent, his famous stratocaster, in an offhand way. it is as if, rather than passing a torch, haight is ridding himself of rubbish, as he communicates clear disdain for tallent when he tells him to keep the guitar. it is not a mentorship; punk is dead.

there are die hards who cannot let go of their affinity for their chaotic days within the culture. for them, the film may well be a harbinger of things to come. their inability to adapt to the times very well may end tragically, either in suicide, or commercial franchise. it is this certainty which is picked up by macdonald, and has made hard core logo a touchstone of generation x's obsession with itself.

macdonald leaves the ending void of morality, which is congruent with punk culture, and allows viewers not familiar with its internal tensions to experience some of the gut emotions which foster it.

production.
mcdonald grew up in the vancouver punk rock scene in the late '70s and early '80s and was drawn to michael turner's book about aging musicians. mcdonald commented in an interview, "what i thought was really interesting is where it is 15 years later, and what are these guys doing now." he had just come off the critically acclaimed dance me outside and friends warned him not to repeat himself by making another road movie. however, mcdonald did not see logo as a repeat of previous films. "on the other films, they (the anti-heroes of roadkill and highway 61 go down the road and meet a nutty person and things happened. here you're with the same people throughout - and they are the nutty people!"

mcdonald had to persuade dillon to do the movie. "he was going 'wow, what if the movie is shit, then i'd lose all my fans from the band, i'd lose all my credibility!'" the director auditioned 200 actors for the role but kept coming back to the musician. dillon remembers, "as soon as he gave me freedom to make the screenplay more believable, i became interested. bruce allowed me creative input and that's what made it a special piece for me." dillon drew a lot on his own real life experiences of being in a band.

hard core logo screened at the cannes film festival. mcdonald remembers, "cannes was very humbling. you're in the same arena as bernardo bertolucci and czechoslovakian pornographers. it's such a bizarre spectrum." the film went on to be nominated for six genie awards, including best picture and director. quentin tarantino saw logo at a film festival and liked it so much that he bought the u.s. distribution rights under his rolling thunder vanity label and even toyed with casting dillon in jackie brown.

soundtrack.

although music figures heavily in the film, a conventional soundtrack album was not initially released; instead, mcdonald had several notable canadian bands record covers of the songs in the film, and packaged them as if they were a tribute album to a real band. that album, a tribute to hard core logo, was also released in 1996.  (a proper soundtrack album was released later in 1998 on velvel records.)

other trivia.
a canadian punk band of the 2000s, billy talent, is named after hard core logo's guitarist.
michael turner was earlier in a band called hard rock miners.

see also.
another state of mind;








</doc>
<doc id="2881889" title="list of airports by icao code: c" nonfiltered="686" processed="675" dbindex="694">

this article is a navigation page for all the terrestrial airports, water aerodromes and heliports in canada.

format of entries is:
 icao (iata)   airport name (alternate name)   airport location;
airports that are part of the national airports system are emphasized.







</doc>
<doc id="8980751" title="clark street (chicago)" nonfiltered="687" processed="676" dbindex="695">
chicago's clark street is occasionally a diagonal, and occasionally a north-south street running near the shore of lake michigan from the city limits with evanston (where it is called chicago avenue, and further north, green bay road) south to cermak road. even as a diagonal it runs more north than northwest. originally an indian trail, it ran all the way to green bay, wisconsin. it is named for george rogers clark.

points of interest.
at addison street it runs next to wrigley field, further to the south it borders lincoln park and at north avenue sits the chicago history museum. it then turns due south for the remainder of its run as it passes through the near north side, then over the river at the clark street bridge, through the loop where it passes city hall, and on to its termination at cermak road.

trivia.
the scene in the movie ferris bueller's day off in which the parking garage attendants go airborne in camerons' father's red ferrari was shot on south clark street near roosevelt road. 



</doc>
<doc id="1859836" title="evolver (film)" nonfiltered="688" processed="677" dbindex="696">


evolver is a 1995 mark rosman horror/science fiction b-movie. it starred ethan embry, cassidy rae, chance quinn, and john de lancie. it also had william h. macy as the voice of evolver (credited as w.h. macy). the movie was frequently aired in the early days of the sci fi channel and has a small cult following that enjoys its campiness. most mainstream critics viewed the film as very average and outdated at the time of its release as the era of the cyberpunk movie was largely over.

plot synopsis.

a teenage computer whiz wins a robotic opponent to compete against in a real-world laser tag-style game. however, the robot, known as "evolver", becomes smarter and more dangerous as it plays putting the boy and his friends in mortal danger.

external links.
;










</doc>
<doc id="2061939" title="the real new fall lp (formerly country on the click)" nonfiltered="689" processed="678" dbindex="697">

the real new fall lp (formerly country on the click) is an album by the fall.  it was released on action records in the united kingdom in 2003, and then on narnack records in the united states, with a slightly altered tracklisting, in 2004.

the subtitle is explained by the fact that the tracks were originally scheduled for release under the title country on the click. the tracks were recorded between december 2002 and january 2003, and mixed, by grant showbiz and jim watts, in february 2003. promos were sent out and three of the new songs were previewed in the band's 23rd peel session, recorded 19 february and broadcast 13 march 2003. the release was delayed after a mix appeared on the internet, prompting mark e. smith to partially remix, re-record and re-sequence the album. however, the original title still appears on the cd spine.

track listing.
uk version.
"green eyed loco-man" (mark e. smith, jim watts)   3:47;
"mountain energei" (dave milner, smith)   3:22;
"theme from sparta f.c." (ben pritchard, smith, watts)   3:43;
"contraflow" (smith, watts)   4:06;
"last commands of xyralothep via m.e.s." (milner, smith)   3:20;
"open the boxoctosis #2" (smith, watts)   3:46;
"janet, johnny + james" (pritchard, smith)   4:15;
"the past #2" (smith, watts)   2:20;
"loop41 `houston" (lee hazlewood)   3:20;
"mike's love xexagon" (smith, watts)   4:59;
"proteinprotection" (milner, pritchard, smith, watts)   3:19;
"recovery kit" (pritchard, smith)   3:58;

us version.
the american release has a different cover and abbreviates the titles of several tracks, although most are identical to their uk conterparts.  "sparta 2#" and "recovery kit 2#" are re-recordings, the former being issues as a single titled "theme from sparta fc #2" in the uk. "mad mock goth" and "portugal" were not included on the uk version of the album but featured on uk singles.

"green eyed" (mark e. smith, jim watts)   3:46;
"mountain" (dave milner, smith)   3:22;
"sparta 2#" (ben pritchard, smith, watts)   3:49;
"contraflow" (smith, watts)   4:05;
"xralothep" (milner, smith)   3:20;
"janet vs. johnny" (pritchard, smith)   4:15;
"boxoctosis" (smith, watts)   3:45;
"the past" (smith, watts)   2:19;
"mad mock goth" (smith, elenor poulou)   4:12;
"protein protection" (milner, pritchard, smith, watts)   3:17;
"mike's love hexagon" (smith, watts)   4:59;
"41.loop / houston" (lee hazlewood)   3:28;
"portugal" (smith, simon archer, milner, poulou, pritchard)   3:37;
"recovery kit 2#" (pritchard, smith, s. beswick , rob lally )   4:03;

personnel.
the fall:
mark e. smith   lead vocals;
ben pritchard   lead guitar, vocals;
jim watts   bass guitar, guitar, computer, vocals;
dave milner   drums, vocals; lead vocals on "portugal";
elena poulou   keyboards, vocals;
simon "dingo" archer - bass guitar on "green eyed loco man", "sparta 2#", "mad mock goth" and "portugal"; backing vocals on "portugal";
s. beswick - keyboards on "recovery kit";

external links.
lyrics;






</doc>
<doc id="5989503" title="artemas ward (writer)" nonfiltered="690" processed="679" dbindex="698">


artemas ward (may 28 1848 march 14 1925) was an american author and advertising executive. he is known for authoring several biographies as well as the grocer's encyclopedia.

his first position was in 1863 with the new york state soldiers  depot. later, ward moved to philadelphia, entering the cuban export and import business, and next founded and published the philadelphia grocer. this led to an offer to manage advertising for household cleaner sapolio soap. he introduced the use of transit ads for sapolio in almost all public transit vehicles in the country. he later obtained an exclusive franchise for the advertising facilities on new york city s elevated railway and subway systems.

he was inducted into the advertising hall of fame in 1975.

references.

artemas ward via aaf hall of fame;
artemas ward biography via feeding america;
staff report (march 15, 1925). artemas ward dies in city home at 76; head of advertising firm was kin of gen. artemas ward of the revolution. collector of americana he was president of several corporations and founder of hospital of hope for crippled men. new york times;







</doc>
<doc id="719340" title="the twilight zone tower of terror" nonfiltered="691" processed="680" dbindex="699">









this article is about the disney ride.  for the roller coaster at australian amusement park dreamworld, see tower of terror.;
the twilight zone tower of terror, more commonly known as tower of terror, is a simulated freefall thrill ride at disney-mgm studios in lake buena vista, florida and at disney's california adventure park in anaheim, california. it is based upon the television show the twilight zone. the disney-mgm studios ride opened in 1994 and the california adventure version in 2004.

a new tower of terror attraction opened at tokyo disneysea in japan and in 2007 the walt disney studios in france will open theirs. the tokyo disneysea version of tower of terror does not have a twilight zone theme.

the ride is themed to resemble the fictional hollywood tower hotel. the storyline of the ride is that on october 31, 1939, the hotel was struck by lightning, transporting an elevator car full of passengers to the twilight zone. the exterior of the ride resembles an old hotel with a blackened scorch mark across the front of the facade where the lightning destroyed part of the building. all of the cast members wear a costume that resembles that of a 1930s bellhop. at over one thousand dollars (us) per uniform, it is the most expensive costume in the various theme parks.

at 199 feet at disney-m studios, it is the third tallest attraction at the walt disney world resort (expedition everest is half a foot taller, and the wand decorating spaceship earth adds 41 feet to that 180-foot tall attraction).  the tower of terror is 199 feet high at walt disney world because of faa regulations that require a fixed red light beacon to be added to the top of any 200-foot or taller building.  imagineers thought that the beacon would take away from the hotel's 1939 theme.   at the disneyland resort, the 183-foot attraction is the tallest attraction at the resort, as well as the tallest building in anaheim.

ride description.


guests entering the ride are ushered into the library, where they view the twilight zone season 4 opening sequence and a short clip of rod serling describing the events at the hotel, presented in the style of the twilight zone television series' opening segment. from there, guests pass through the hotel's basement "boiler room" and into a large elevator equipped with 6 rows of seats, accommodating 21 passengers.

the ride employs specialized ride technology developed specifically for disney, particularly the ability to move the elevator cab in and out of the drop shaft in the florida version. the elevator cabs are actually automated vehicles which lock into the elevators.  the cabs move out of their elevators to make the horizontal transit fifth dimension scene to the drop shaft. the california and tokyo versions were able to take advantage of a relatively new technology that allowed guests' reflections to be transformed into ghosts before their eyes (a thermal camera). 

although the ride is designed to feel like a freefall, the elevator is actually accelerated downward faster than the pull of gravity for extra thrills. this can actually be observed by passengers: loose objects such as water bottles or purses will actually "float" in mid-air for a couple of seconds during the longer drops, as the lift falls faster than the objects themselves can.

in an effort to be true to the spirit of the twilight zone, disney imagineers reportedly watched every episode of the original television show at least twice. the attraction buildings are littered with references to twilight zone episodes.

florida version.

in the florida version of the ride, rod serling greets riders the moment the elevator doors close, saying, "you are the passengers on a most uncommon elevator about to ascend directly into your very own episode of the twilight zone."  the elevator rises for a few seconds before coming to a stop. the doors open to reveal a corridor populated by the ghostly occupants from 1939, who then disappear. the corridor fades to a starlit night sky, and a window breaks (like in the opening segment of each episode). the elevator doors close and the car begins to rise again.  serling's voice continues: "one stormy night long ago, five people stepped through the door of an elevator and into a nightmare.  tonight those doors are opening once again, and this time, they're opening for you."  at the top, the doors again open and the car mysteriously moves forward out of the shaft, through a section of the ride called the fifth dimension: a surreal collection of objects and sights, once again in the style of the television show's opening sequence.

a field of stars appear and begin disappearing. the stars completely disappear, and they form a vertical line, which splits in half and opens like elevator doors. (rumors have suggested the stars form a hidden mickey before the line appears, but this has been confirmed as false by wdi members who worked on the project.)  serling's voice is heard again, saying, "you are about to discover what lies beyond the fifth dimension, beyond the deepest, darkest corner of the imagination, in the tower of terror."  after the elevator moves in to the shaft, the randomly-selected drop sequence begins. at one point, doors in front of the riders will open to reveal a view of the park from a height of 13 stories. in the years since the attraction's initial opening, a randomized pattern of drops and lifts have been added, where the ride vehicle will drop or rise various distances at different intervals.  other effects were also added, including new projection images of the breaking window, wind effects, and ominous blacklit figures of the five ghostly original riders.  these changes were made to make every trip to the twilight zone a different experience. after a series of these drops have been made, the ride vehicle returns to the basement of the decrepit hollywood tower hotel. the slogan for the ride now is "the tower is in control!!"

attraction facts.
previous taglines:;
 "fear every drop" (1999);
 "twice the fright" (1997);
current tagline: "never the same fear twice", "the tower is in control!" (2004 - present);

california version.

while similar in concept and theme to the original ride in florida, the version of this attraction in disney's california adventure park does have some differences. the first difference is that the elevator pushes backwards away from the elevator door while a starfield appears around it. the narrator (rod serling) says, "you are the passengers of a most uncommon elevator, about to take the strangest journey of your lives. your destination...unknown, but this much is clear, a reservation has been made in your name for an extended stay". a door closes, placing riders in darkness as the elevator rises.

the first stop of the elevator is in front of a large mirror. the voice of the narrator tells riders to "wave goodbye to the real world". as they do, electricity begins to arc around the mirror and the reflection of the riders is replaced by a ghostly image. the audience's reflection then disappears with the narrator saying "for you have just entered ... the twilight zone!"  this is actually a thermal-mirror, which shuts off to reveal the dummy vehicle behind it. the elevator shudders as the door closes and the elevator moves to its next stop, a corridor of the hotel, similar to the one in florida. here, the narrator says that "what happened here to dim the lights of hollywood's brightest show place is about to unfold once again.", which is followed by a similar sequence of events to that of florida. rod serling continues his narration, assuming the dialogue from the florida attraction: "one stormy night long ago, five people stepped through the door of an elevator and into a nightmare... that door is opening once again, but this time, it's opening for you." 

instead of the window at the end of the corridor, there is an elevator door that, after the lightning striking and the ghosts vanishing through bolts of electricity, opens to reveal the ghosts of the 1939 guests dropping into the "5th dimension." as the ghosts of the 1939 guests reappear in their elevator, the rod serling narration continues with "that door is opening once again, but this time... it's opening for you." with that, the rider elevator drops into the 5th dimension a mere split-second after the riders see the ghosts' elevator drop (a change from the lengthy horizontal movement that precedes the drop in the florida version).

the passenger's car drops into darkness before ascending to the top of the shaft for a view over the disneyland resort before dropping to the bottom window, and falling to the bottom.

tokyo version.


the tower of terror at tokyo disneysea has no connection or tie-ins with the twilight zone, and is instead themed as the hotel hightower, a new york city 1890s hotel owned by eccentric billionaire harrison hightower iii who disappeared while taking the elevator up to his private quarters shortly after taking a mysterious idol of a trickster spirit called shiriki mtundu from an ancient civilization in africa. the facade is more gothic in architecture, and is located in the american waterfront area of the park, opposite the s.s. columbia cruise liner.

paris version.

the twilight zone tower of terror at walt disney studios park is almost an exact copy in every way to the version at disney's california adventure (even if the tower had been first designed for the french disney resort). the ride is currently under construction in the central area of the park, behind the "la terrasse" seating area. unlike its american cousins, the paris version is being constructed using concrete rather than steel, this is one of the few details of the ride that differ from its californian counterpart upon completion. the use of concrete in the construction instead of steel was a choice of the management of disneyland paris, this choice was made because of the low cost of concrete in construction of the structure compared to a steel support structure which was more expensive.

seasonal enhancement.
for halloween 2006, the tower of terror received decorations and minor enhancements.  items include halloween decorations in the hotel lobby, items surrounding the exterior of the building and a selection of cast members in period costume including a reporter, a janitor and a pair of 1930s los angeles citizens.

soundtrack.
in the queue for the tower of terror at disney-mgm studios, music from the 30s is played. the listing can be found here: disney music loops: tower of terror area music.

the ride's theme was conducted by richard bellis, and can be found on several theme park albums:
disneyland/walt disney world music vacation (as part of a medley);
walt disney world resort: the official album (1999 cd);
walt disney world resort: official album (2000 cd);
official album: walt disney world resort celebrating 100 years of magic (2001 cd);

historical site.

in hollywood, california, visible from highway 101, are the hollywood tower apartments on franklin avenue. a plaque by the front door reads:

hollywood tower. 1929. sophisticated living for film luminaries during the "golden age" of hollywood. placed on the register of historic places by the u.s. department of interior.



see also.
list of current disney-mgm studios attractions;
tower of terror, a 1997 television movie based on the ride.
 incidents at disney parks;

references.


external links.
the official disney-mgm studios tower of terror site;
the official disney's california adventure tower of terror site;
tokyo disney resort - tower of terror;

towerofterror.org;
serviceelevator.com;
joe's tokyo disney resort site - the hotel hightower photo update;
tower of terror at disneyland resort paris construction photos;
tokyo disney resort at home tower of terror;
theme park review's tower of terror page;
interview with robert rhine, 'rod serling' for the tower of terror.
the-hollywood-tower-hotel.com;














</doc>
<doc id="5545236" title="barry cowsill" nonfiltered="692" processed="681" dbindex="700">
barry cowsill (september 14, 1954 -  september 2005) was an american musician and member of the musical group the cowsills. he was born in newport, rhode island. the fifth of seven children, barry soon became the drummer (and later the bass player) of his brothers' band, playing popular tunes at local dance clubs. in the late 1960's, this band expanded to include two more brothers, a sister, and their mother, and the cowsills went on to churn out a string of hits (including the #2's "the rain the park and other things" and "hair") before officially disbanding in 1971.

although he participated in various post-heyday incarnations of the family group, cowsill lived the rest of his life a nomad. the trauma from his childhood (domestic abuse, extreme adulation, overexposure and sudden loss of fame) affected him deeply, and led to substance abuse issues, mental disturbances, and suicide attempts. he performed under various pseudonyms, moving from city to city, spending much of his time in new orleans. he recorded an acclaimed (and presently out-of-print) solo album in 1998, titled as is.

in the years leading up to his death, barry lived in newport, rhode island and then settled in new orleans, playing in bars and local venues, and recording new material with a group he called us1. he reconnected with family and fans and was reportedly attempting to become sober when hurricane katrina hit the city in august 2005. cowsill was heard leaving messages on his sister susan's voicemail in the days following the hurricane, but was not heard from after september 1. in january 2006, after a months-long tireless search that included fans as well as family, a body was found, on december 28, washed up at a wharf in new orleans and subsequently identified to be cowsill by comparison to dental records. his death was ruled a drowning as a result of floodwaters from the hurricane.

plans to release the us1 material posthumously are reportedly underway.

reference.
 barry cowsill dies, 51, sarnia observer (on). entertainment, monday, january 9, 2006, p. b4 / front. accessed on october 6, 2006.


external links.

 http://www.cowsill.com/history/;
 http://www.bapresley.com/silverthreads/history/newspapers/jiminterview.html;













</doc>
<doc id="3603867" title="crossings (buffy novel)" nonfiltered="693" processed="682" dbindex="701">


crossings is an original novel based on the u.s. television series buffy.

plot summary.

while at the theater for a star trek marathon with anya, xander recognizes a friend of his, from the arcade, enter the theater and begin threatening and beating humans in a very demonic way. upon further inspection, xander learns that his friend, robby, was involved in total immersion vr video game beta testing. but the testing was a little too secretive, according to robby's girlfriend. meanwhile, buffy and dawn are having issues with one another, and buffy doesn't know how to deal with being dawn's new "mom" after the recent death of their own mother. after much research concerning the bizarre video game tests, and the appearance of a man named bobby lee tooker, the group discovers that the video game isn't so much a video game, as much as it is another dimensional portal while the human bodies are being taken over by demons. buffy and xander need to find a way to get these beta testers back into the real world and destroy the evil demon who's using the testers to conjure a powerful being.

trivia.

tagline: 'a video game has a deadly outcome'.
buffyverse canon characters include: buffy, willow, anya, xander, spike, willy, tara, giles, dawn, amy (as rat);
buffyverse non-canon characters include: robby healdton (xander's friend); stephie mcconnell (robby's girlfriend); bobby lee tooker (demon hunter); derek traynor (medium); dredfahl (villain); malik (demon); torqualmar (demon);

continuity.

supposed to be set in buffy season 5.

canonical issues.
;

buffy/angel books such as this one are not usually considered by fans as canonical. some fans consider them stories from the imaginations of authors and artists, while other fans consider them as taking place in an alternative fictional reality. however unlike fan fiction, overviews summarising their story, written early in the writing process, were 'approved' by both fox and joss whedon (or his office), and the books were therefore later published as officially buffy/angel merchandise. ;

timing.

stories that take place around the same time in the buffyverse:

 

see also.
buffyverse chronology;
buffy books. these tend to surround the character of buffy and the fictional town of sunnydale;
angel books. these instead focus on angel and his soc called 'fang gang';
 tales of the slayer  these chronicle the stories of past slayers;
all of the above can be described as  buffyverse novels ;

external links.
reviews.
litefoot1969.bravepages.com - review of this book by litefoot;
teen-books.com - reviews of this book;
nika-summers.com - review of this book by nika summers;
shadowcat.name - review of this book;







</doc>
<doc id="720425" title="monarchy in new zealand" nonfiltered="694" processed="683" dbindex="702">


new zealand is a constitutional monarchy and a commonwealth realm, with queen elizabeth ii as its reigning monarch, since february 6, 1952. as such she is the de jure head of state, though she does hold several powers that are hers alone, while the governor general is sometimes referred to as the de facto head of state.

in new zealand, the queen's official title is: elizabeth the second, by the grace of god, queen of new zealand and her other realms and territories, head of the commonwealth, defender of the faith.

the realm of new zealand comprises new zealand, tokelau and the ross dependency, and the self-governing states of the cook islands and niue.

the heir apparent is elizabeth ii's eldest son, prince charles, prince of wales.

constitutional monarchy in new zealand.


international versus domestic role.
one of the most complicated features of the new zealand monarchy is that it is in fact a shared monarchy. some fifty-three independent sovereign states, including new zealand, are members of the commonwealth of nations (formerly the british empire, and later british commonwealth). sixteen of these countries are specifically commonwealth realms who recognise the same sovereign, separately, as their head of state.

queen elizabeth ii is the current monarch's conventional title for all her commonwealth realms, but is generally regarded as "queen of new zealand" only when she is actually present in new zealand or when she otherwise performs ceremonies relevant to new zealand. some examples are conferring new zealand honours while in the united kingdom.

most of the sovereign of new zealand's domestic duties are performed by the governor general of new zealand.

there are few duties which must be performed specifically by the sovereign (such as signing the appointment papers of governor general), but on occasion the monarch must personally act directly in partisan affairs (yet to happen in new zealand).

in addition to the sovereign's role in each realm, he or she is also the nominal head of the commonwealth. though this title does not imply any political power over member nations and does not automatically belong to the monarch, only the shared monarch of the commonwealth realms has ever held the title.

development of shared monarchy.
although queen elizabeth ii is also monarch of the united kingdom and several other commonwealth countries, each nation   including new zealand   is sovereign and independent of the others.

the balfour declaration of 1926 provided the dominions the right to be considered equal to britain, rather than subordinate; an agreement that had the result of, in theory, a shared crown that operates independently in each realm rather than a unitary british crown under which all the dominions were secondary. the monarchy thus ceased to legally be an exclusively british institution.

on all matters of the new zealand state, the monarch is advised solely by new zealand ministers. no british or other realm government can advise the monarch on any matters pertinent to new zealand.


queen elizabeth ii, is the current monarch's conventional title for all her commonwealth realms, but is generally addressed as "queen of new zealand" when she is actually present in new zealand or when she otherwise performs duties relevant to new zealand abroad, on the advice of her new zealand ministers. some examples are conferring new zealand honours while in the united kingdom.

in addition to the monarch's role in each realm, the new zealand monarch is also the nominal head of the commonwealth. though this title, does not imply any political power over member nations, and does not automatically belong to the monarch, only the shared monarch of the commonwealth realms has ever held this title.

finance.
contrary to common misconception, new zealanders do not pay any monies to the queen, either for personal income or to support the royal residences outside of new zealand. only when the queen is in new zealand, or acting abroad as queen of new zealand, does any new zealand government support her in the performance of her duties. this rule applies equally to other members of the royal family.

usually the new zealand governments pay only for the costs associated with the governor general in their exercising of the powers of the crown on behalf of the queen, including travel, security, residences, offices, ceremonial occasions, etc.

constitutional role.
new zealand's constitution is made up of a variety of statutes and conventions that are either british or new zealand origin. part one of the constitution act 1986 describes "the sovereign", as the reigning monarch who is new zealand's head of state. section 2(1) of the act declares "the sovereign in right of new zealand" as head of state, section 5(1) describes the sovereign's successor as being "...determined in accordance with the enactment of the parliament of england intituled the act of settlement". this means that whoever is head of state of the united kingdom under the act of settlement 1701 shall be head of state of new zealand.

this legislation lays out the rules that the monarch cannot be a roman catholic, nor married to one, and must be in communion with the church of england upon ascending the throne.

as new zealand's rules of succession are identical to those of the united kingdom (by the statute of westminster) see succession to the british throne for more information.

all powers of state are constitutionally reposed in the monarch, who is represented by the governor general of new zealand.

the governor general is appointed by the monarch upon the advice of the prime minister of new zealand.

duties.

most of the queen's domestic duties are performed by the governors general.

as in the uk, the monarch's role, and thereby the vice-regal's role, is almost entirely symbolic and cultural, acting as a symbol of the legal authority under which all governments operate, and the powers that are constitutionally hers are exercised wholly upon the advice of the elected government. the monarch "reigns" but does not "rule".

there are also few duties which must be performed specifically by the queen (e.g. signing the appointment papers of governors general), or require assent specifically by the queen.

it is also possible that if the governor general decided to go against the prime minister's or the government's advice, the prime minister could appeal directly to the monarch, or even recommend that the monarch dismiss the governor general.

the queen has formally opened parliament from the old legislative council chamber on five occasions, in january 1954, february 1963, march 1970, february 1986 and february 1990. on each occasion the royal standard was flown from the central flag pole while the queen was in parliament house.

royal assent.
royal assent and proclamation are required for all acts of parliament; usually granted by the governor general.


representation of the state.
at one time the monarchy was considered a purely british institution, when most new zealanders still continued to be both legally, and by personal view, british subjects. however, paralleling the changes in constitutional law, and the evolution of new zealand nationalism, the cultural role of the monarchy in new zealand altered.

title.
one of the first post-war examples of new zealand's status as an independent monarchy was the alteration of the monarch's title, by the royal titles act 1953.

for the first time, the official new zealand title mentioned new zealand separately from the united kingdom and the other realms, to highlight the monarch's role specifically as queen of new zealand, as well as the shared aspect of the crown throughout the realms: the royal titles act 1953 first introduced a new zealand royal title for use by the sovereign in right of new zealand, in this case "elizabeth ii, by the grace of god of the united kingdom, new zealand and her other realms and territories queen, head of the commonwealth, defender of the faith". with the passage of the royal titles act 1974 queen elizabeth ii's royal title in new zealand has been  elizabeth the second, by the grace of god, queen of new zealand and her other realms and territories, head of the commonwealth, defender of the faith. 

although the queen's new zealand titles include "defender of the faith ," neither the queen, nor the governor-general has any religious role in new zealand; there have been no established churches in new zealand. this is one of the key differences from the queen's role in the united kingdom where she is supreme governor of the church of england.



symbols.


references to the monarchy are commonplace in public life in new zealand. her portrait is still found in some government buildings, military installations, and schools. there are references to st edward's crown, on the new zealand's royal coat of arms, on various medals, and awards.

these latter cases reflect the monarch's place as the ceremonial head of the new zealand honours system. as such, only she can approve the creation of an honour, which she does as requested by the government of new zealand. although, the governor general administers most responsibilities relating to new zealand honours on the queen's behalf.

the use of the term 'royal', as in the royal new zealand navy and royal new zealand air force, and oaths taken by politicians, judges, members of the armed forces and new citizens are to the queen. the queen's portrait appears on some postage stamps, the obverse (front) of new zealand coins, and all banknotes feature the portrait of the queen as the watermark. however, only the $20 banknote bears her image as the main feature.

in new zealand, unlike in the united kingdom, the queen's official birthday is a public holiday and is celebrated in the first monday in june.

god save the queen remains one of the national anthems, along with god defend new zealand, but is rarely played.

royal presence.

though all of the royal family currently lives abroad, members are still regular visitors to new zealand.

these events are often marked with a variety of ceremonies, the granting of honours and general celebrations, even though these events are not always official holidays.

the queen regularly undertakes tours of new zealand to celebrate new zealand culture, milestone anniversaries, military remembrances, etc. other royals will perform the same tasks in the queen's place, from time to time, usually on a less grand scale or for events of a lesser importance. these tours are at the invitation of, organized, and paid for by the new zealand government, provincial government, or a combination of both; hence, they are called "official tours" or "official visits."

since 1869, there have been over fifty visits by a member of the royal family to new zealand, though only five of those came before 1953.
 the first was a visit by prince alfred in 1869.
 prince george, and his wife, mary in 1901;
 prince edward in 1920.
 prince albert, and wife elizabeth, in 1927. and;
 prince henry, duke of gloucester in 1934-1935;

queen elizabeth ii was the first reigning monarch of new zealand to set foot on new zealand soil, during her 1953-54 royal visit, when she also delivered her christmas day message from wellington.


other visits of queen elizabeth ii:
 6-18 february, 1963: during this tour the queen attended celebrations at waitangi and the queen elizabeth ii arts council was established as new zealand's gift to the queen.
 12-30 march, 1970: the queen participated in the james cook bicentenary celebrations and introduced prince charles and princess anne to new zealand. this tour marked the first 'walk-about' in a royal visit.
 30 january - 8 february, 1974: the queen attended, and indeed closed the commonwealth games in christchurch and participated in new zealand day events at waitangi.
 22 february - 7 march, 1977: this was a commonwealth tour designed to mark the queen's silver jubilee.
 12-20 october, 1981: a short visit which followed a commonwealth heads of government meeting in melbourne.
 22 february - 2 march, 1986: a routine visit which coincided with the centennial of the new zealand police.
 1-16 february, 1990: the queen closed the commonwealth games in auckland and took part in the events marking the sesquicentennial of the treaty of waitangi.
 1-10 november, 1995: the queen attended the commonwealth heads of government meeting in auckland and the opening and refurbished of parliament buildings (2 november 1995).
 22-27 february 2002: the queen visits new zealand as part of the commemoration of her 50th jubilee.;

further, other members of the royal family tour new zealand either on official state duties, or at the request of charitable organizations, military regiments, and the like. for example, princess anne visited in 1990 to commemorate the 75th annivesary of the gallipoli landings on anzac day, and prince william visited in 2005, representing the queen of new zealand at ve and vj day commemorations. the earl of wessex, who also visited in 1990, with the queen, to open the commonwealth games, spent two terms as a house tutor and junior master at the collegiate school, in wanganui, in 1982. 

prince william began his first official visit to new zealand on june 30, 2005, staying in the country for an 11 day tour.  while there he laid a wreath at the national war memorial to mark the end of the second world war, and met with war veterans.  william also attended an all blacks practice, lunched with them, and watched a match against the british and irish lions. the prince controversially supported the lions, despite being heir to the crowns of both britain and new zealand. he then visited an elementary school in arrowtown, and later represented his mother at a wreath laying ceremony in auckland.

on november 11, 2006, the queen dedicated the new zealand war memorial in london's hyde park,  accompanied by the duke of edinburgh, the prince of wales, the duchess of cornwall, prince william, the duke of york, and the princess royal, as well as the prime minister of new zealand, helen clark, and the prime minister of the united kingdom, tony blair.  the queen reviewed a royal guard of honour, formed by the largest contingent of new zealand forces seen in the uk since since her majesty's coronation in 1953.

legal role.
in new zealand the legal personality of the state is sometimes referred to as "her majesty the queen in right of new zealand", although the term "the crown" more often associated with the government acting as a legal entity.

similarly the oath of allegiance to new zealand, sworn by new citizens, the new zealand defence force, new zealand police officers, and parliamentarians, is an oath of allegiance to the monarch as sovereign of new zealand, and to his/her heirs and successors according to law.

the oath taker places their allegiance to the continuing state, its laws, etc., as embodied by the monarch. as the legal personality of the state, the monarch has obligations to the oath taker. the monarch's acceptance of her responsibilities to her subjects is symbolised by the coronation oath.

in addition the monarch also serves as a symbol of the legitimacy of courts of justice, and of their judicial authority. an image of the queen or the coat of arms of new zealand is always displayed in new zealand courtrooms.

the crown and the m ori.
many new zealanders consider the treaty of waitangi to be the "magna carta" of new zealand, and as the founding document of the nation. the treaty, signed between over five hundred m ori chiefs and the then british crown, is often viewed today as an agreement directly between the indigenous peoples and the new zealand government. m ori constitutional lawyer moana jackson has stated that, because the new zealand government (identified as "kawanatanga" in the treaty text) is the body politic enforcing the treaty and making settlements, "kawanatanga" is the actual party to the treaty, not the crown , despite the fact that the crown alone holds the executive authority of government .

in the m ori language, the queen is sometimes referred to as 'te k tuku-rerenga-tahi', meaning "the white heron of a single flight"; in m ori proverb, the rare white heron is a significant bird seen only once in a lifetime. in 1953, for her coronation, she was given a kiwi feather korowai (cloak). the queen wears this cloak, and also speaks partly in m ori, when attending a p whiri or m ori welcoming ceremony.

for many m ori however, the m ori king movement is the most significant form of monarchy in new zealand, a monarchy regarded as having more relevance and significance in their daily lives.

m ori petitions to the crown.
following the signing of the treaty of waitangi, a number of petitions were made by m ori directly to the crown in london. the first such petition occurred in 1882 by northern chiefs, but was referred back to the new zealand government. in 1894, a second petition was made by king tawhiao of the kingitanga (m ori king movement) to queen victoria. m ori felt they had a special relationship with their treaty partner, queen victoria, in person, but in this case they met instead with lord derby at the colonial office who referred the petition back to the new zealand government, on the grounds that the imperial government no longer had responsibility for such matters. the new zealand government dismissed it.

all subsequent petitions taken to the united kingdom were referred back to the new zealand government on the grounds that the imperial government no longer had the responsibility for such matters; after the passage of the statute of westminster in 1931, which divided the crown and ended the right of the united kingdom parliament to legislate for new zealand without the latter's consent, this concept became law. in 1977, a group of wanganui m ori unsuccessfully petitioned the queen over their claims for the whanganui river.  in 1983, an attempt by the mana motuhake party to directly petition the queen to "honour the treaty" was refused by the new zealand government. in response, m ori activist dun mihaka offered a traditional rebuke by baring his buttocks at the queen.

the crown and the new zealand defence force.


the crown retains a prominent place within the new zealand defence force, which consists of the new zealand army, royal new zealand air force, and royal new zealand navy. section 5 of the defence act 1990 says: "the governor-general may from time to time, in the name and on behalf of the sovereign, continue to raise and maintain armed forces, either in new zealand or elsewhere..."

the sovereign is head of the armed services. the governor-general is styled commander-in-chief in and over new zealand, although no specific duties attach to the latter office that does not belong to the office as representative of the queen.  the sovereign's position and role in the military is reflected by new zealand naval vessels bearing the prefix her majesty's new zealand ship (hmnzs) (subsequently his majesty's new zealand ship during the reign of a king), and all members of the armed forces must swear allegiance to the queen and her heirs and successors. this means total and unconditional loyalty to the new zealand government and the crown. this reaffirmation of loyalty to the sovereign, as head of state, also ensures that the loyalty of servicemen and women as serving members of the armed services, regardless of their personal political beliefs, is not given to any one political party, but to the country in the form of the head of state


saluting by soldiers is recognition of the queen's commission, being indirectly a salute to the sovereign through the individual holding her majesty the queen's authority. by returning the salute; it is not only acknowledgment of a salute to the officer personally, but recognition of the fact that through an officer, members have given an outward sign of their loyalty to her majesty the queen, new zealand and the new zealand defence force.

members of the royal family have presided over many military ceremonies, including trooping of the colours, inspections of the troops, and anniversaries of key battles. whenever her majesty is in wellington she lays a wreath at the new zealand war memorial.

members of the royal family have personal experience of life in the british armed forces.

as princess elizabeth, the queen joined the auxiliary territorial service in 1945, becoming the first female member of the royal family to be a full-time active member of the armed services.the duke of edinburgh and the prince of wales have served in the royal navy. the prince of wales also trained in the royal air force as a pilot. prince william and prince harry have both undergone army officer training at sandhurst.

the duke of york served for over twenty years as an officer in the royal navy before leaving the service in 2001. he is the most recent member of the royal family to see active service.

members of the royal family are colonel-in-chief; of many new zealand regiments including: corps of royal new zealand engineers; royal new zealand infantry regiment; royal new zealand army logistic regiment; royal new zealand corps of signals amongst many others. for a more comprehensive list see: list of new zealand organisations with royal patronage:honorary military appointments

new zealand royal family.

the new zealand royal family is a group of people closely related to the new zealand monarch; it is a non-resident royal family, those who comprise the group live in the united kingdom. they carry the style his or her majesty (hm), his or her royal highness (hrh), or sometimes the right honourable.

members of the royal family in the direct line of succession owe allegiance to the sovereign in right of new zealand. as such, they are new zealand subjects, although not strictly new zealand citizens, and thus do not have an automatic right of abode in new zealand.

the current new zealand royal family are members of the house of windsor. though the new zealand crown is recognised as legally separate from the uk crown, the two countries (along with the sixteen other commonwealth realms) are in a personal union relationship, meaning they share the same monarchy. thus all the members of the new zealand royal family also comprise the british royal family.

awards.
aside from awards which are personal gifts of the sovereign, members of the royal family are commonly awarded new zealand honours on a substantive, though sometimes additional (e.g. above the statutory limit) basis (e.g., queen elizabeth the queen mother was an additional, not honorary, member of the order of new zealand, and various members of the royal family are substantive companions of the queen's service order), reflecting the fact that, in theory, all the queen's subjects, not just new zealand citizens, are eligible for new zealand honours:

history.
monarchy in new zealand dates back to the first half of the nineteenth century.

after captain cook's exploration of new zealand in the late eighteenth century, an increasing number of european settlers came to new zealand. in 1833, with growing lawlessness amongst traders and settlers, the british government appointed james busby as british resident to protect british trading interests.

despite busby's presence, trouble increased. in 1840, the british government sent captain william hobson to new zealand as lieutenant governor, to acquire the sovereignty of new zealand, by way of a treaty with the native m ori chiefs.

the treaty of waitangi was signed on 6 february 1840, at waitangi in the bay of islands. over five hundred m ori chiefs signed the treaty as it was taken around the country during the next eight months.

following the treaty of waitangi in 1840, the islands of new zealand became a british colony.

in 1907, new zealand achieved the status of dominion, which meant it was a country of the british empire and later the commonwealth of nations, with autonomy in domestic and foreign affairs. the term fell into disuse after the second world war.

in 1917, the powers, duties and responsibilities of the governor-general (as the sovereign's representative) and the executive council were set out in a royal letters patent.

in 1926, the balfour declaration at the imperial conference in london confirmed the status of new zealand, along with that of australia, the irish free state, canada, south africa and newfoundland, as self-governing dominions under the british crown.

the statute of westminster in 1931, an act of the british parliament, gave legal form to this declaration. it gave new zealand and other dominions the authority to make their own laws. new zealand ratified the statute in 1947, after the passing of the statute of westminster adoption act 1947

the royal titles act 1953 first introduced a new zealand royal title for use by the queen, and the royal titles act 1974 altering the style borne by the queen in new zealand.

a personal flag for use by the queen in new zealand was adopted in 1962. it features the shield design of the new zealand coat of arms in the form of an oblong or square. superimposed in the centre is a dark blue roundel bearing an initial e surmounted by a royal crown within a gold chaplet of roses.

more recently, the constitution act 1986 has become the principal formal statement of new zealand's constitution. this act recognises that the queen, the sovereign in right of new zealand, is the head of state of new zealand and that the governor-general appointed by her is her representative. each can, in general, exercise all the powers of the other. however the appointment of the governor-general is only done by the queen, on the advice of the prime minister.

monarchs of new zealand.
a list of monarchs of new zealand:



debate.

unlike in australia, where republican sentiment has been stronger, there is little agitation for ending the role of the monarchy in new zealand. there was some reduction in support for the monarchy during the 1990s.

none of the major political parties currently in parliament have a stated policy of creating a republic, although some members of parliament have publicly expressed their opposition to new zealand remaining a monarchy; including the current prime minister of new zealand, helen clark.

the new zealand public is still in favour of the retention of the monarchy, with recent polls showing it to have between 50 and 60% support . the polls indicate that while many new zealanders see the monarchy as being of little day-to-day relevance, the institution still enjoys the support of many new zealanders, particularly older new zealanders (those born before the second world war).  with the popularity of the current monarch, and the position of the treaty of waitangi under a republic remaining a concern to many m ori and other new zealanders alike, as well as the question of what constitutional form a republic might take unresolved, support for becoming a republic is still the view of only around a third of the population.

new zealand has two high-profile special-interest groups representing both sides of the debate, who frequently argue the issue in the media: the monarchist league of new zealand and republican movement of aotearoa new zealand.

new zealand organisations with royal patronage.

to receive royal patronage, an organisation must prove to be long lasting, and to be of the highest standard in their field. these organisations such as the royal new zealand returned and services  association, have received patronage from various monarchs and their families.

see also.
other realms.
 monarchy in australia;
 monarchy in canada;
 monarchy in the united kingdom;

new zealand.
 governor general of new zealand;
 m ori king movement;
 new zealand honours system;
 monarchy in the cook islands;

other.
 prime ministers of queen elizabeth ii;
 list of commonwealth visits made by queen elizabeth ii;
 dominion;
 commonwealth realm;

external links.
 buckingham palace website, main page of section deovted to the queen's constitutional role, symbols, visits and photos in new zealand;
 evolution of the new zealand monarchy by noel cox published in monarchy magazine.
 the monarchist league of new zealand;
 the republican movement of aotearoa new zealand;
 royal visit to nz in 1953-54;

footnotes.




















</doc>
<doc id="1915776" title="frito pie" nonfiltered="695" processed="684" dbindex="703">



frito pie (also known as "frito chili pie" or, in the midwest, a "walking taco") is a corn chip and chili con carne dish of disputed origin, popular in the south western united states.

a basic frito pie is really no more than a small single-serving bag of fritos corn chips, with a cup of chili poured over the top, usually finished up with grated cheese or onions. because there are so many fritos compared to the amount of chili, only part of the fritos will get saturated by the chili, and most will stay at least partly crunchy.

history.
the exact origins of the frito pie are unknown though there are several stories as to its beginnings.  

one of the stories says that the frito pie originated with frito-lays founder, elmer doolin's mother. it claims that daisy dean doolin came up with the frito pie sometime after creating the first frito chip. mentions of the frito pie are nearly as old as the company itself which was founded in 1932. 

another of the stories claims that the frito pie originated in the 1960s with teresa hernandez, who worked at the f. w. woolworth's lunch counter in santa fe, new mexico. eating it became such a tradition that around 1997, when that woolworth store closed, locals organized to keep the lunch business open. 

however, frito pie has been a popular dish in texas for generations, evidenced by menus and by the presence of many frito pie recipes online and in cookbooks which mention having had the food growing up in texas.  the corn chips have been available in the san antonio area since before 1932.

some purists insist that only fritos "original" can be used in an authentic frito pie, rather than fried corn chips made by other snack food companies.

in oklahoma it has been a standard ballpark and drive-in restaurant food for many decades.  in these instances, the dish was not baked but traditionally an individual-size bag of fritos was split open and hot chili poured over the chips, along with grated cheese and (often) chopped onions.  it is no longer common to use the split bag, as the packaging material has changed, leaving the bag less insulated against heat. in texas it is a staple of most bingo games.

the restaurant chain dairy queen introduced the frito pie burger as part of its menu which consists of a traditional hamburger containing frito chips and chili.

references.




external links.
frito pie recipe from texascooking.com;




</doc>
<doc id="6700901" title="porto ceresio" nonfiltered="696" processed="685" dbindex="704">

porto ceresio is a comune (municipality) on lake lugano in the province of varese in the italian region lombardy, located about 50 km northwest of milan and about 11 km northeast of varese, on the border with switzerland. as of 31 december 2004, it had a population of 3,080 and an area of 5.1 km2.

porto ceresio borders the following municipalities: besano, brusimpiano, brusino arsizio (switzerland), cuasso al monte, meride (switzerland), morcote (switzerland).


 demographic evolution .

colors=
  id:lightgrey value:gray(0.9)
  id:darkgrey  value:gray(0.8)
  id:sfondo value:rgb(1,1,1)
  id:barra value:rgb(0.6,0.7,0.8)

imagesize  = width:455 height:303
plotarea   = left:50 bottom:50 top:30 right:30
dateformat = x.y
period     = from:0 till:4000
timeaxis   = orientation:vertical
alignbars  = justify
scalemajor = gridcolor:darkgrey increment:1000 start:0
scaleminor = gridcolor:lightgrey increment:200 start:0
backgroundcolors = canvas:sfondo

bardata=
  bar:1861 text:1861
  bar:1871 text:1871
  bar:1881 text:1881
  bar:1901 text:1901
  bar:1911 text:1911
  bar:1921 text:1921
  bar:1931 text:1931
  bar:1936 text:1936
  bar:1951 text:1951
  bar:1961 text:1961
  bar:1971 text:1971
  bar:1981 text:1981
  bar:1991 text:1991
  bar:2001 text:2001

plotdata=
  color:barra width:20 align:left

  bar:1861 from: 0 till:772
  bar:1871 from: 0 till:788
  bar:1881 from: 0 till:874
  bar:1901 from: 0 till:912
  bar:1911 from: 0 till:1045
  bar:1921 from: 0 till:1117
  bar:1931 from: 0 till:1233
  bar:1936 from: 0 till:1087
  bar:1951 from: 0 till:1710
  bar:1961 from: 0 till:2175
  bar:1971 from: 0 till:2980
  bar:1981 from: 0 till:2929
  bar:1991 from: 0 till:2959
  bar:2001 from: 0 till:3068

plotdata=

  bar:1861 at:772 fontsize:xs text: 772 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1871 at:788 fontsize:xs text: 788 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1881 at:874 fontsize:xs text: 874 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1901 at:912 fontsize:xs text: 912 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1911 at:1045 fontsize:xs text: 1045 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1921 at:1117 fontsize:xs text: 1117 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1931 at:1233 fontsize:xs text: 1233 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1936 at:1087 fontsize:xs text: 1087 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1951 at:1710 fontsize:xs text: 1710 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1961 at:2175 fontsize:xs text: 2175 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1971 at:2980 fontsize:xs text: 2980 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1981 at:2929 fontsize:xs text: 2929 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:1991 at:2959 fontsize:xs text: 2959 shift:(-8,5)
  bar:2001 at:3068 fontsize:xs text: 3068 shift:(-8,5)

textdata=
  fontsize:s pos:(20,20)
  text:data from istat



references.















</doc>
<doc id="5341892" title="wrestling at the 1908 summer olympics - greco-roman light heavyweight" nonfiltered="697" processed="686" dbindex="705">
the greco-roman light heavyweight was one of four greco-roman wrestling weight classes contested on the wrestling at the 1908 summer olympics programme. like all other wrestling events, it was open only to men.  the light heavyweight was the second-heaviest weight class, allowing wrestlers up to 93 kilograms (205 lb).

results.

standings.



bracket.



jensen beat payr in the bronze medal match to take third place.

sources.

 ;
 ;





</doc>
<doc id="3942509" title="nova city" nonfiltered="698" processed="687" dbindex="706">
 
nova city is nova taipa gardens property development project phase ii , it located in taipa, macau. the landford is hopewell holdings ltd, sociedade de turismo e divers\f5es de macau  & shun tak holdings ltd.

external links.
the offical website;









</doc>
<doc id="8455435" title="an m18" nonfiltered="699" processed="688" dbindex="707">
an-m18 colored smoke grenade. 

this us army grenade is used as a ground-to-ground or ground-to-air signaling device, a target or landing zone marking device, or a screening device for unit movements. 



warning.
with both the an m8 and an-m18, there is danger of starting a fire if it is used in a dry area.

field expedient use. 
when employing the m18 or an-m8 hc hand grenade, it may be desirable to use one of these grenades without the fuze. to do this, the following procedure should be used in combat only: 
remove the tape from grenade bottom to expose the filler. ;
remove the fuze by unscrewing it from the grenade. ;
ignite starter mixture with open flame. ;
immediately throw the grenade to avoid burn injury.

also see.
m18 colored smoke grenade;



</doc>
<doc id="2192451" title="major waldemar fydrych" nonfiltered="700" processed="689" dbindex="708">

waldemar fydrych (born april 8, 1953), also known as "major," is a polish activist best known as the founder and leader of the orange alternative movement in poland. he has been recognized worldwide for his numerous cultural actions and publications.

early career.
fydrych was born in toru , poland on april 8, 1953. he is a graduate of history and history of art at the university of wroclaw. fydrych began  his independent public activity in the 1970s. he created in wroclaw an independent student solidarity union (nzs) and launched there the movement for new culture. at this time, he was also one of the co-organizers of a massive peace march that took place in april 1981.

during the martial law, many poles first made acquaintance with fydrych's work through his picturesque dwarf images painted on building walls, covering up the paint that was used to cover up anti-regime slogans.

the orange alternative.
starting in 1986, he began organizing an endless chain of happenings, which were eventually named the "orange alternative." in march 1988, after distributing women's hygienic napkins on the street (an item missing then), he was arrested and sentenced by the court of justice to three months of imprisonment. he was released following general public uproar.

nickname.
at the time of the communist regime, when fydrych was called upon to fulfill his military service obligation, he appeared before the army commission dressed in a uniform of a major. unwilling to enter the army, he pretended the opposite, simulating madness. asked to keep a different language in regard to his superiors, fydrych began to address his interlocutor per "colonel," at the same time describing himself as a "major," a nickname which remained with him ever since.

recent activities.
fydrych, alongside a group of students, participated in the orange revolution in ukraine organizing events in poland and ukraine. he and the students made in the streets an "orange scarf" of support for the revolution. this scarf was started in warsaw by one of the icons of the orange revolution - famous ukrainian singer ruslana lyzhichko. on the night of the "orange victory," the 15-meter long scarf was handed by lyzhichko to president yushchenko as one of the main symbols of the brotherhood between ukraine and poland.

in 2002, fydrych presented himself in elections to the post of the mayor of the city of warsaw. he also run for mayor of warsaw in 2006 elections, gaining 2914 votes (0,41%). his organization was fools and dwarfs (gamonie i krasnoludki).

honors and awards.
 1988 solidarity award of puls in london.
 1988 award of polkul in austria.
 in june 2005, fydrych and the orange alternative movement were honored by an exposition held at the european parliament in brussels.
 four films have been produced and aired on polish public television, including a documentary on the orange alternative and the orange revolution.

publications.
 fydrych, w. hokus pokus;
 fydrych, w. the lives of the orange men;

quotes.
 "in poland there are only three places when you can feel free: in churches, but only for the meditations, in prisons, but not everyone can go to prison, and on the streets - they are the freest places.";
 "the western world will find out much more about the situation in poland from hearing that i was put to jail for giving tampons to a woman, than from reading the books and articles written by other people from the opposition.";
 "can you treat a police officer seriously, when he is asking you the question: 'why did you participate in an illegal meeting of dwarfs?";

see also.
 poland;
 orange alternative;
 martial law in poland;

external links.
 brief biography on the orange alternative website (based on the doctoral thesis nicole gourgaud, universit\e9 de lyon   november 1993);









</doc>
<doc id="3983495" title="klaip?da revolt" nonfiltered="701" processed="690" dbindex="709">
the klaip da revolt took place during january 1923 in the memel territory that had been detached from germany after world war i. the status of the region as a mandated territory under temporary french administration was resolved after the event when it became part of lithuania as klaip da region.

situation.

since the act of tilsit (signed on november 30 1918), in which lithuanians in east prussia's lithuania minor region expressed their desire to unite with the newly independent state of lithuania (which declared its independence from russia on february 16 1918), they had been trying to achieve that goal of unification for some time. 

the treaty of versailles detached the german lands north of the neman river (memel in german(y), nemunas in lithuania(n)), which had been under german control since the 13th century, and made it a mandated territory of the league of nations. as memel territory (memelland in german, later klaip da region after the lithuanian name), it was placed under french administration.

the part of lithuania minor south of the memel river remained within east prussia, which made the fight for independence difficult in that area. in the memel territory, however, an ethnic majority of lithuanians (lietuvininks) was claimed, and given as a significant reason for the revolt of 1923. in a census of 1925, a fragile 50.8% majority was made up as those who declared themselves klaip dians or memellanders were added to those who declared themselves as lithuanians. 

in contrast, germans (without those who called themselves memellanders), still made up 43.8% of the overall population in the region, mainly concentrated in the cities and the south. the german language remained dominant in local government, despite the fact that the region was no longer part of germany. 

another reason for the revolt was the emergence of the new and independent republic of lithuania. it lacked a sea port and having one was seen as a matter of vital importance to lithuania so it could control its own exports and imports and have access to the sea. memel (later klaip da) was the main city in the region around the curonian lagoon, and a major sea port.

poland had its own ambitions over the klaip da region and sought to assert control over the region in exchange for danzig. after world war i, the polish corridor provided access to the baltic sea, but the free city of danzig was not granted to poland, as the poles had wanted. in addition, poland and lithuania did not have diplomatic relations during this interwar period, due to the dispute over the vilnius region, and were at odds with one another. lithuania wanted to do what was necessary to prevent the possibility of a polish take-over of the klaip da region.

before the revolt.

before the revolt, the fate of the memel territory was to be decided by the league of nations. the decision was made to extend the mandate, which was approaching the end of its designated time frame, for another 15 years. this effectively ruled out the possibility of uniting the region to lithuania. the region would become a freistadt (free city, like free city of danzig) after the period of the french administration ended. the newly formed soviet russia, was against the idea of a free city, and requested that their interests be taken into account as well, when the question was considered. the soviet army near minsk was reinforced when they concluded that poland might use force to achieve a favorable outcome for themselves, regarding the region.

on december 18 1922, the supreme salvation committee of lithuania minor (an organization that played a key role during the revolt) was established in memel. the official purpose of this organization was to organize the inhabitants of the memel territory into a single force, and become part of lithuania. they supported linguistic, national, and cultural activities of lithuanians in lithuania minor. they also wanted to garner support from their brethren who lived in lithuania, and from lithuanians who lived in foreign countries as well.

protests by ethnic lithuanians against a freistadt continued late into 1922.

preparations for the revolt.

there was substantial cooperation between the lithuanians of lithuania minor (represented by the national council of prussian lithuanians and the supreme salvation committee of lithuania minor) and the government of the republic of lithuania in planning the revolt. on january 2 1923, the date was set for the revolt at a meeting of various key people (including the leader of the national council of prussian lithuanians erdmonas simonaitis and the lithuanian consul to memel, \b4ilius). it was decided that three groups would be formed to carry out the revolt; the objective of the first one was to take over city and port of memel, the second one was to safeguard the central part of the region against any possible concentration of enemy forces, and the third group was meant to control the south of the region to prevent interference from the german towns of ragnit and tilsit. the groups would also collect volunteers from the local population; the third group was permitted to take up to 300 local volunteers, and the second group - 40 to 50 volunteers; the rest of volunteers were meant to be sent to aid the first group in memel, which was expected to encounter the fiercest resistance.

local lithuanian intelligence worked with diligence in the area, and found that the french planned to issue a permanent currency (pegged to the french franc), in the entire memel territory.

the revolt.
the collection of forces.

the revolt started on the january 9 1923. the supreme salvation committee of lithuania minor issued a manifesto to the french soldiers stationed in the region, in which it repeated the principles that had been expressed in the act of tilsit and asked the soldiers not to interfere. on the same day, volunteers from lithuania crossed the border into the klaip da region, (they were in civilian clothes, but armbands with letters "mls" distinguished them). these volunteers used the national flag of lithuania minor as their flag as well, showing solidarity with the cause of the lithuanians of lithuania minor. in addition to these volunteers, the revolt was supported from lithuania by the lithuanian riflemen's union and its members, as well as various civilian persons. the plan for the revolt was created by j. budrys.

in light of these events, the temporary occupational government (directory) of the memel territory declared a state of emergency in the region. the base of the supreme salvation committee of lithuania minor was moved from memel to heydekrug in reaction to possible attempts by the temporary occupational government (french directory) and the french soldiers to destabilise its work. the committee issued the following declaration to the people of memel territory (klaip da region):

the french directory of the region and the council of the state were dissolved (and restored);
the supreme salvation committee of lithuania minor would take over all powers in the region;
erdmonas simonaitis, former member of the directory, was asked to establish the new directory in 3 days;
the german and lithuanian languages were given equal status as official languages of the region;
all political prisoners were to be released;
the public officials would continue to perform their duties;
the salaries would be paid in gold currency;
in order to guarantee calm, modified martial law was declared inside the region;
those who attempted to break public order would be punished;

thus, despite still having no actual power, the supreme salvation committee of lithuania minor already issued these decrees, which indicated the future direction of the region.

in addition to this declaration, the committee issued a french declaration to the french soldiers, in which they, as "fighters for noble ideas of freedom and equality" were asked not to fight against the "will and achievements of the lithuanian nation".

at the same time, the french supreme commissioner pestin  declared that he would fight against any attempts to change the status of memel territory. censorship began as well.

most of region is overtaken by the revolt.

by january 11, the revolt swept through the region as the region's second largest city heydekrug was overtaken and memel was reached. the leaders of the revolt told pestin  that the actions were meant to overthrow the directory and not to fight the french soldiers, however the leader of the french soldiers said that the insurgents would not be permitted to enter memel.

the battle for memel/klaip da.

when it was clear that memel would not be taken peacefully, as there was a german majority in the city, and it was guarded by french troops as an important port, the insurgents started the attack on january 15 at 01:00. the base of the insurgents was in ginduliai. by 03:00, sendvaris was overtaken and various french officers (including lieutenant sulier), french soldiers, a policeman and german volunteers were taken prisoner. by 05:00, the insurgents entered memel itself, and the french soldiers retreated. by 07:00, the river dan  in the center of the city was reached. by noon, the french soldiers surrendered. during the fighting, 20 insurgents and 2 french soldiers were killed (according to other sources, 1 french soldier was killed and 2 were injured).

after these events, the whole memel territory was overtaken by the supreme salvation committee of lithuania minor, and erdmonas simonaitis assumed his duties as the leader of the new directory of the klaip da region, as it was called now.

further events.

on january 16, the polish ship "komendant pilsudski" entered the port of klaip da. one of the people on board was mssr. trouson, a member of the french military mission in poland. his task was to put down the revolt, but after seeing that the klaip da region already had been overtaken, and the french troops interned, the ship departed.

on 17th-18th of january, british and french troop transports reached klaip da, but did not yet disembark.

on january 19, the directory of klaip da region asked for admission into lithuania as an autonomous territory (where the klaip da region would have a separate parliament and government, two official languages, be the administrator of taxes, duties, cultural and religious affairs, would oversee the local judicial system, agriculture and forestry, and social security). lithuania accepted this, and thus the klaip da region became an autonomous part of lithuania.

reaction of western europe to the revolt.

on january 10, the french and british governments asked lithuania, through diplomatic channels, to use "all of its power" to ensure that there would not be any attacks against people and material things in the klaip da region and protested lithuania's support for the uprising in klaip da. on january 11 the prime minister of lithuania ernestas galvanauskas said that the question of klaip da can only be solved in an ethnographic way - the same way under which klaip da was detached from germany. he said, however, that the lithuanian consul in klaip da would do everything possible to try to ensure that no civilians would be hurt. later the leaders of these european powers continued to pressure the lithuanian government to refuse to include the klaip da region as an integral part of lithuania and, later, to allow the western powers to decide klaip da's fate. however, lithuania and the local government (directory) of klaip da region resisted such actions, and eventually the status of klaip da region was established as that of an autonomous region inside lithuania.

references.

p.  ep nas "nauj j  laik  lietuvos istorija" ("dr. k. griniaus fondas", 1996);
a.a. glio\b8aitis "til\b8 s akto reik\a8m " ("voruta", 1998, 1999 no 43-47);
r. valsonokas "klaip dos problema" (publishing house "vaizdas", 1989);
lietuvi  enciklopedija volumes xii, xxix (boston, 1953-1969);
r. \b4iug\b8da "lietuva imperialistini  valstybi  planuose 1917-1940" ("mokslas", 1983);
a. vitkus "lietuvos istorijos  vyki  chronologija 1918-1926" ("varpas", kaunas, 2000);





</doc>
<doc id="2020451" title="star wars prequel trilogy" nonfiltered="702" processed="691" dbindex="710">

the prequel trilogy (commonly abbreviated pt by fans) is a term used to describe the three films of the star wars  whose events take place before the original trilogy. they are:

star wars episode i: the phantom menace;
star wars episode ii: attack of the clones;
star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith;

 general synopsis .

in star wars episode i: the phantom menace, the first film in the trilogy, jedi knights qui-gon jinn and obi-wan kenobi are sent to the planet naboo to mediate a dispute between the galactic republic and the corrupt trade federation, and are charged with protecting naboo's queen, padm\e9 amidala. the three are unexpectedly routed to the planet tatooine, where they discover anakin skywalker, a nine-year-old slave, whom qui-gon believes to be destined to bring balance to the force. after winning his freedom in a podrace, anakin reluctantly leaves his mother behind on tatooine. in the ensuing battle between the republic and the trade federation, qui-gon is killed in a battle with sith lord darth maul, who is in turn slain by obi-wan. obi-wan promises his dying master that he will train anakin to become a jedi knight. days later, obi-wan and anakin are received as heroes on naboo, honored by queen amidala   and the republic's new chancellor, palpatine. 

ten years later, in star wars episode ii: attack of the clones, the mysterious sith lord darth sidious, along with disaffected jedi master count dooku, start the confederacy of independent systems, also known as the separatists, an alliance of planetary systems who want to secede from the republic. palpatine amasses near dictatorial emergency powers in response to the supposed threat, and starts a clone army for the republic with which to fight the separatists. 

in the midst of this, a teenaged anakin skywalker is assigned to guard padm\e9, who is now a senator. the two eventually fall in love, even though such an emotional attachment is forbidden to jedi. anakin is further tempted away from the jedi code by palpatine, who subtly worsens the rift between him and obi-wan. the situation worsens when anakin's mother, shmi, is killed by tusken raiders, and anakin murders them in a fit of rage. the clone wars break out soon afterward in a battle on the planet geonosis, during which anakin loses his right arm in a lightsaber duel with dooku. he and padm\e9 are married days later, in a secret ceremony.

star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith is set three years later, when anakin has become a full-fledged jedi knight and hero of the clone wars. he and obi-wan are called back from the outer rim to coruscant, to save palpatine, who has been kidnapped by dooku and general grievous, a separatist warlord. during the ensuing battle, anakin kills dooku in cold blood, at palpatine's urging. he then reunites with padm\e9, who tells him that she is pregnant. he is plagued by visions of her death in childbirth, and vows to do anything to save her. palpatine uses his fear to lure him to the dark side, telling him he can learn the ability to stop death. he eventually reveals himself to anakin as none other than darth sidious.

when anakin tells mace windu of palpatine's treachery, windu leads a group of fellow jedi masters to arrest the chancellor. during the confrontation, palpatine kills all but windu, and engages the jedi master in a fierce lightsaber duel. during this struggle, palpatine fires force lightning at windu, who blocks it with his lightsaber and sends it back to its source, deforming the chancellor's face. anakin intervenes at the last moment out of his fear that he should lose any chance of saving his wife, giving palpatine the opportunity to kill windu. anakin then pledges himself to the dark side and becomes the sith lord darth vader. thus indoctrinated in the ways of the sith, he carries out palpatine's orders to exterminate the jedi. this allows palpatine to seize absolute power, and transform the republic into the oppressive galactic empire.

upon learning of anakin's fall from grace, obi-wan and padm\e9 try to persuade anakin back to the light, but anakin has by now gone mad with power and is beyond saving. suspecting that padm\e9 has betrayed him to obi-wan, anakin uses the dark side to choke his wife into unconsciousness. anakin and obi-wan fight a ferocious duel, ending when obi-wan slices off both of anakin's legs and his remaining human arm. anakin rolls down the embankment to the edge of the river of lava, and nearly burns to death. obi-wan is unable to watch any longer, and leaves his former friend to die. palpatine rescues anakin and revives him with a life support suit of black body armor and cybernetic limbs. 

later, padm\e9 dies in childbirth after delivering healthy twins, luke and leia. palpatine learns of her fate, and tells the newly transformed darth vader that the force-choke had killed her. vader screams in torment, his spirit broken; he later oversees the construction of the first death star with palpatine and grand moff tarkin.

obi-wan and yoda decide that the children must be given new identities and hidden from the empire. leia is given to the royal family of the planet alderaan to raise as a princess, while luke is given to anakin's distant relatives on tatooine. the remaining jedi go into hiding, biding their time to challenge the empire and the sith.

 characters .
 major .



 locations .
 major .



 minor .



 critical and commercial reaction .
while all three films were huge commercial successes (the phantom menace in particular breaking box office records for an opening weekend), critical reaction was mixed. the first two films were generally commended for their visual effects, but the acting and screenwriting featured in them were panned. jake lloyd and hayden christensen, the two actors who portrayed anakin, were both nominated for the golden raspberry, or "razzie" award, for "worst supporting actor,"  while the first two films in the series were nominated for "worst picture" awards.   the phantom menace was especially panned for the character jar jar binks, qui-gon and obi-wan's bumbling sidekick; fans and critics alike lambasted the character as an obnoxious ploy to sell merchandise and appeal to child audiences. the character, who spoke in a slow-witted, cartoonish dialect, was even decried as a racist caricature similar to stepin fetchit. lucas emphatically denied such assertions. 

revenge of the sith received more favorable reviews, making it the critically best-received of the trilogy. while christensen's performance was again panned, the acting received higher marks than that featured in the previous two films, especially mcgregor as the noble obi-wan and mcdiarmid as the evil palpatine. the script was generally seen as an improvement (playwright tom stoppard performed an uncredited rewrite), but still received a great deal of criticism, particularly the dialogue in the romantic scenes between anakin and padm\e9; film critic roger ebert wrote that "greeting cards are more heartfelt" than that dialogue. 

a few critics speculated that the film was meant as a critique of george w. bush and the iraq war. david edelstein of slate magazine even went so far as to coin the term "darth dubyous" in his review of the film.  also, comedian jon stewart satirically compared bush advisor karl rove to palpatine in his book america (the book). lucas himself has denied that either bush or the war was a direct influence, saying that "when i wrote this, war in iraq didn't exist."

 see also .
original trilogy;
sequel trilogy;







</doc>
<doc id="1262238" title="jambo openoffice" nonfiltered="703" processed="692" dbindex="711">
jambo openoffice is an open source office suite based on openoffice.org written for swahili speakers and run on linux.

created by kilinux it was released in december 2004 as jamboo.o.

see also.
list of office suites;
comparison of office suites;

external links.
jambo openoffice;




</doc>
<doc id="2423666" title="saint-pierre, saint-pierre and miquelon" nonfiltered="704" processed="693" dbindex="712">

saint-pierre is the capital of the french overseas collectivity of saint-pierre and miquelon, in north america. saint-pierre is the more populated of the two communes (municipalities) making up saint-pierre and miquelon.

geography.
the commune of saint-pierre is made up of the island of saint-pierre proper and several nearby smaller islands, such as l'\cele-aux-marins. although containing nearly 90% of the inhabitants of saint-pierre and miquelon, the commune of saint-pierre is considerably smaller than the commune of miquelon-langlade, which lies to its northwest.

the main settlement and communal seat is situated on the north side of a harbour called barachois, which faces the atlantic ocean, on the saint-pierre island's east coast. the mouth of the harbour is guarded by a small chain of islands.

history.
until 1945, there existed a third commune in saint-pierre and miquelon: l'\cele-aux-marins. the commune of l'\cele-aux-marins was annexed by the commune of saint-pierre in 1945.


government.

the comune is lead by the mayor the the council

adjunct maire
jos\e9e quedinet detcheverry;
fr\e9d\e9ric beaumont;
claude arrossamena;
r\e9mi girardin;
jos\e9e goupilliere beaupertuis ;
patrick lebailly;
rachel poueith andrieux;
yvon salomon;

conseillers municipaux
norbert hacala;
th\e9r\e8se poirier;
claudette franche ruault;
jean-fran\e7ois ozon;
maryse gorget tesniere ;
lydia desdouets le soavec;
bruno arthur;
v\e9ronique girardin;
j\e9r\f4me detcheverry;
marie-luce briand;
jean-marie quedinet;
michel jaccachury ;
marie-claire rio;
martine roiu michel;

opposition
 jacqueline poirier;
 michel revert dominica michel revert;
 loic fouchard;
 tatiana urtizberea;
 tierry letournel;
 pascal derouet;

demographics.
population of saint-pierre at the 1999 french census was 5,618 , many of whom are of basque, breton, normand or acadian descent. all inhabitants in the commune (municipality) live on the island of saint-pierre proper.

landmarks.
close to the centre of the harbour's edge lie the post office and custom house, behind which is general charles de gaulle square, the town's centre. 

other prominent landmarks in saint-pierre include the cathedral, to the north of the square, rebuilt in the early twentieth century after a major fire, and the pointe aux canons lighthouse, at the mouth of the harbour. further north, close to the town's hospital, is the fronton zazpiak bat - an arena for the traditional basque sport of pelota.

transportation.
saint pierre airport, the international airport of saint-pierre and miquelon, is located south of the settlement of saint-pierre and is served by air saint-pierre with flights both to miquelon airport and several canadian airports.

radio and television.

 radio france outremer - radio and television;
 radio atlantique;

external links.
 encyclop\e9die de saint-pierre et miquelon;
 tourism and travel resources for st pierre & miquelon;
 frequently asked questions tourism and travel;
 map of saint-pierre;
 local airline air saint-pierre;
 ferry service for saint-pierre, miquelon and fortune newfoundland;
 wikitravel for saint-pierre and miquelon ;












</doc>
<doc id="4925595" title="calm down (song)" nonfiltered="705" processed="694" dbindex="713">


"calm down" is killing heidi's eighth song released and the second song from their third self-titled album killing heidi. the song was the #1 most added song to australian radio on release. "it's about a big crush" says lead singer ella hooper. the video was shot in the grand open spaces of broken hill, new south wales.

tracklist.


charts.






</doc>
<doc id="4440247" title="venkatesh ketakar" nonfiltered="706" processed="695" dbindex="714">
venkatesh ketakar or v.b.ketakar (? - aug 1930) was an astronomer who lived in india. almost forgotten now even in his native country, his claim to fame is that he correctly predicted some parameters of the orbit of pluto - nearly 20 years before it was actually discovered by clyde tombaugh. though tombaugh was unaware of ketakar's work, the latter's calculations for pluto turned out to be much more correct than those of percival lowell and william henry pickering, who are still remembered for their significant contributions to astronomy. by the time pluto was discovered in february 1930, ketakar had suffered a severe paralytic stroke and died soon after.

around the turn of the 20th century, astronomers thought that the orbit of neptune was being disturbed by the gravitational pull of a yet-undiscovered planet. neptune itself had been discovered because it disturbed the orbit of uranus. therefore many astronomers including lowell and pickering started analyzing neptune's orbit in the hopes of discovering another planet. so did venkatesh ketakar.

ketakar published his calculations in the may 1911 issue of bulletin of the astronomical society of france. unlike lowell and pickering, he modeled his computations after those of pierre-simon laplace who had analysed the motions of the satellites of jupiter. ketakar computed that the heliocentric longitude of the unknown planet (which he called brahma) would be 114.23 degrees and that its mean daily movement was 14.6364 arc-seconds which meant that its orbital period was 242.28 years. using the third law of johannes kepler, ketakar estimated that the new planet's mean distance from the sun was 38.95 a.u. ketakar also postulated the existence of another planet beyond brahma at 59.573 a.u away from the sun. he called it vishnu. no such planet has been discovered and its existence is very doubtful. 

on february 18, 1930, clyde tombaugh actually discovered pluto after analyzing thousands of photographs of the night sky. it was found in the zodiacal constellation of gemini at a heliocentric longitude of 136.28 degrees. soon it was known that its mean daily motion, orbital period and mean distance from the sun were 14.283 arc-seconds, 248.475 years and 39.52 a.u., respectively. these values are very close to what ketakar had calculated. pickering's and lowell's estimates of the same parameters turned out to be far less accurate. a simple extrapolation using ketakar's figures show that on the date of discovery, pluto's heliocentric longitude would have been 137.45 degrees - just about a degree away from the true location!

a major weakness in ketakar's work is that he did not compute the other co-ordinate needed to find pluto, i.e., the inclination of the planet's orbit to the ecliptic. pickering and lowell estimated it to be 21 and 10 degrees respectively. at 17.15 degrees, pluto's orbital inclination is larger than that of any other planet. thus, pickering had an inkling about pluto's unusual orbital inclination. his calculations dated january 1, 1909 also gave pluto's heliocentric longitude as 105.8 degree which accords very well with the actual value of 105.59 degrees on that date. however, since pickering's estimate of mean daily motion was only 9.5 arc-seconds, his work would not have helped a future astronomer find pluto.

in an ironic footnote to the history of the search for pluto, modern measurements show that there are, in fact, no perturbations in the orbit of neptune. nineteenth century astronomers had erroneously ascribed a wrong value to the mass of neptune, hence had thought that neptune was being pulled by the gravity of a planet beyond it. therefore, all the calculations of pickering, lowell, ketakar and others were based on wrong data! in any case, after the discovery of pluto's satellite charon in 1978, the planet is now known to be too small to influence neptune's orbit. thus, the accuracy of ketakar's predictions must be regarded as sheer coincidence!

references.

1.	m. khanna, j. g. chhabra, s. d. sharma, "prediction of pluto by ketakar", indian journal of history of science, 19(1), pp.18-26, 1984 

2.	kaufmann iii, william j., "universe", 2nd edition, pp.302-303




</doc>
<doc id="2620309" title="tovomita" nonfiltered="707" processed="696" dbindex="715">


tovomita is a plant genus of the family clusiaceae. they are noted for having white-yellow latex and containing xanthones. there are about 45 species, found in tropical america, 30 of which are in venezuela.

taxonomy.
synonyms of this genus are:
marialvaea mart.;
tovomitidium ducke;




</doc>
<doc id="9012588" title="erie art museum" nonfiltered="708" processed="697" dbindex="716">
nationally recognized art museum with impressive collection of american paintings, drawings and sculpture.


</doc>
<doc id="3739939" title="buku mera" nonfiltered="709" processed="698" dbindex="717">
buku mera is a village situated midways up a mountain range, in the east timor liqui\e7\e1 district. the village is located to the south east of the liqui\e7\e1 township, halfway between liqui\e7\e1 and bazartete. during september of 1999, the village suffered numerous cases of rape and murder at the hands of the besi merah putih militia.









</doc>
<doc id="187359" title="campfire" nonfiltered="710" processed="699" dbindex="718">






a campfire is a fire lit at a campsite, usually in a fire ring.  campfires are a popular feature of camping, particularly among organized campers such as scouts or guides. without proper precautions they are also potentially dangerous. a certain degree of skill is needed to properly build a campfire, to keep it going, and to see that it is properly extinguished.

the dangers.

a campfire may burn out of control in two basic ways: on the ground or in the trees.  dead leaves or pine needles on the ground may ignite from direct contact with burning wood, or from thermal radiation.  alternatively, airborne embers (or their smaller kin, sparks) may ignite dead material in overhanging branches.  this latter threat is less likely, but a fire in a branch will be virtually impossible to put out without firefighting equipment, and may spread more quickly than a ground fire. hence, many campgrounds include fire rings to prevent this from occurring.

embers may simply fall off of logs and be carried away by the air, or they may be ejected at high speed by exploding pockets of sap.  with these dangers in mind, some places prohibit all open fires, particularly during times of the year that are prone to wildfires.

campfires are prohibited in many public camping areas.  public areas with large tracts of woodland usually have signs indicating the level of fire danger, which usually depends on recent rain and the amount of deadfalls or dry debris; when the danger is highest, all open fires are prohibited.  even in safer times, it is common to require registration and permits to build a campfire.  such areas are often kept under observation by rangers, who will dispatch someone to investigate any unidentified plume of smoke.

finding a site, and other safety measures.

ideally, every fire should be lit in a fire ring.  if a fire ring is not available, a temporary fire site may be constructed.  one way is to cover the ground with sand, or other soil mostly free of flammable organic material, to a depth of a few centimeters.  the area of sand should be large enough to safely contain the fire and any pieces of burning wood that may fall out of it (10 ft/3 m is recommended).  sand piles should be scattered after the fire has been put out.  if the topsoil is moist, it may suffice to simply clear it of any dead plant matter.

fire rings, however, do not fully protect material on the ground from catching fire.  flying embers are still a threat, and the fire ring may become hot enough to ignite material in contact with it. generally, one must simply stand away from the ring to prevent injury.

no fire should be lit close to trees, tents or other fire hazards.  this includes overhanging branches; some carry dead, dry material that can ignite from a single airborne ember.  in addition, a fire may harm any roots under it, even if they are protected by a thin layer of soil.  conifers run a greater risk of root damage, because they lack taproots and their roots run close to the surface. 

fires also should not be lit on bare rocks.  the ash will leave a black stain that cannot be easily removed, but the fire's heat can lead to more dramatic consequences.  it will cause the outer layer of the rock to expand, possibly causing it to crack.  it may also boil pockets of water contained in the rock.

an additional safety measure is to have sand and water on hand to smother and douse the fire if it does get out of the fire pit. it is wise to gather these materials before they are actually needed.

types of fuel.
there are, by conventional classification, three types of material involved in building a fire without manufactured fuels.

tinder is anything that can be lit with a match.  one of the best natural tinders is birch bark, where available, followed by dead, dry pine needles or grass; a more comprehensive list is given in the article on tinder.   ;
kindling is an arbitrary classification including anything bigger than tinder but smaller than fuelwood.  in fact, there are gradations of kindling, from sticks thinner than a finger to those as thick as a wrist.  a quantity of kindling sufficient to fill a hat may be enough, but more is better.
fuel can be different types of timber. timber ranges from small logs two or three inches across to larger logs that can burn for hours. it is typically difficult to gather without a hatchet or other cutting tool.  in heavily used campsites, fuelwood can be hard to find, so it may have to be brought from home or purchased at a nearby store.

the gathering of fuel in natural areas is often restricted.  cutting of living trees is almost always forbidden - but neither is it very useful, because sap-filled wood does not burn well.  squaw wood (dead parts of standing trees) may also be prohibited.  wood lying on the ground is usually permitted.

building the fire.
having found a suitable site and gathered materials, the fire-builder has a variety of designs to choose from.  a good design is very important in the early stages of a fire.  most of them make no mention of fuelwood - in most designs, fuelwood is never placed on a fire until the kindling is burning strongly.
 the tipi fire-build is perhaps the best, but it is takes some patience to construct.  first, the tinder is piled up in a compact heap.  the smaller kindling is arranged around it, like the poles of a tipi.  for added strength, it may be possible to lash some of the sticks together.  a tripod lashing is quite difficult to execute with small sticks, so a clove hitch should suffice.  (synthetic rope should be avoided, since it produces pollutants when it burns.)  then the larger kindling is arranged above the smaller kindling, taking care not to collapse the tipi.  a separate tipi as a shell around the first one may work better.  tipi fires are excellent for producing heat to keep you warm.


 a lean-to fire-build starts with the same pile of tinder as the tipi fire-build.  then, a long, thick piece of kindling is driven into the ground at an angle, so that it overhangs the tinder pile.  the smaller pieces of kindling are leaned against the big stick so that the tinder is enclosed between them.

 a log cabin fire-build likewise begins with a tinder pile.  the kindling is then stacked around it, as in the construction of a log cabin.  the first two kindling sticks are laid parallel to each other, on opposite sides of the tinder pile.  the second pair is laid on top of the first, at right angles to it, and also on opposite sides of the tinder.  more kindling is added in the same manner.  the smallest kindling is placed over the top of the assembly.  of all the fire-builds, the log cabin is the least vulnerable to premature collapse, but it is also inefficient, because it makes the worst use of convection to ignite progressively larger pieces of fuel.
 a variation on the log cabin starts with two pieces of fuelwood with a pile of tinder between them, and small kindling laid over the tops of the logs, above the tinder.  the tinder is lit, and the kindling is allowed to catch fire.  when it is burning briskly, it is broken and pushed  down into the consumed tinder, and the larger kindling is placed over the top of the logs.  when that is burning well, it is also pushed down.  eventually, a pile of kindling should be burning between two pieces of fuelwood.  the logs will eventually catch fire from it.
 another variation is called the funeral pyre method because it is used for building funeral pyres.  its main difference from the standard log cabin is that it starts with thin pieces and moves up to thick pieces.  if built on a large scale, this type of fire-build collapses in a controlled manner without restricting the air flow. ;
 a cross-fire is another variation in which two pieces of fuel wood are placed parallel on the ground with tinder between them.  once the kindling is going strong, alternating perpendicular layers of fuelwood are placed across the two base pieces.  this type of fire is excellent for producing coals for cooking.

 the traditional finnish rakovalkea (literally "slit bonfire") is constructed by placing one long piece of fuelwood atop another, parallel and bolstering them in place with four sturdy posts driven into the ground.  (traditionally, whole unsplit tree trunks are used for the fuelwood.)  kindling and tinder are placed between the logs in sufficient quantity (while avoiding the very ends) to raise the upper log and allow ventilation.  the tinder is always lit at the center so the bolstering posts don't burn prematurely.  the rakovalkea has two excellent features.  first, it burns slowly but steadily when lit; it doesn't require arduous maintenance, but burns for a very long time.  a well constructed rakovalkea of two thick logs of two meters in length can warm two lean-to shelters for a whole sleeping shift.  the construction means that the logs themselves act as wind-cover!  thus, exposure to smoke is unlikely for the sleepers; nevertheless someone should always watch in case of an emergency. second, it can be easily scaled to larger sizes (for a feast) limited only by the length of available tree trunks.

 a keyhole fire is made in a keyhole-shaped firering, and is used in cooking. the large round area is used to build a fire in order to create coals. as coals develop, they are scraped into the rectangular area used for cooking.

 a "top lighter" fire is built similar to a log cabin or pyre, but instead of the tinder and kindling being placed inside the cabin, it is placed in a tipi on top. the small tipi is lighted on top, and the coals eventually fall down into the log cabin. these fires are often built by youth outdoor movements for "council fires" or ceremonial fires. they burn very predictably, and with some practice a builder can estimate how long they will last. they also don't throw off a lot of heat, which isn't needed for a ceremonial fire. the fire burns from the top down, with the layer of hot coals and burning stubs ignighting the next layer down.

lighting the fire.

once the fire is built, the next step is to light the tinder, using either an ignition device such as a match or a lighter.  a reasonably skillful fire-builder using reasonably good material will only need one match.  the tinder will burn brightly, but be reduced to glowing embers within half a minute.  if the kindling does not catch fire, the fire-builder must gather more tinder, determine what went wrong and try to fix it.

one of five problems can prevent a fire from lighting properly: wet wood, wet weather, too little tinder, too much wind, or a lack of oxygen.  rain will, of course, douse a fire, but a combination of wind and fog also has a stifling effect.  metal fire rings generally do a good job of keeping out wind, but some of them are so high as to impede the circulation of oxygen in a small fire.  to make matters worse, these tall fire rings also make it very difficult to blow on the fire properly.

steady, forceful blowing may be in order for a small fire in an enclosed space that has mysteriously slowed down, but blowing may extinguish a fire if it is done abruptly or when it is not needed.  most large fires easily create their own circulation, even in unfavorable conditions, but the variant log-cabin fire-build suffers from a chronic lack of air so long as the initial structure is maintained.

once the large kindling is burning, all of the kindling should be put on the fire, save for one piece at least a foot long.  this piece is useful later to push pieces of fuelwood where they are needed.  once all of the kindling is burning, the fuelwood should be placed on top of it (unless, as in the rakovalkea fire-build, it is already there).  for best results, two or more pieces of fuelwood should be leaned against each other, as in the tipi fire-build.

campfire activities.


campfires have been used for cooking since time immemorial; see cooking on a campfire.  however, portable stoves have all but replaced campfires in this regard.  other practical, though not commonly needed, applications for campfires include drying wet clothing, alleviating hypothermia, and distress signaling.

most campfires, though, are lit exclusively for recreation.  people tend to find something fascinating about flames and glowing coals, so a campfire is usually an agreeable (and warm) way to pass the time from dusk to bedtime, particularly for those in a pensive mood.  campfires are also good venues for intimate conversation and storytelling; yarns and stories about poltergeists are particularly popular. songs are also usually sung by the fire, a tradition that is usually associated with scouting. scouting songs are popular tunes that are sung all over the country at campfires all summer -and all year- long.

another traditional campfire activity involves impaling marshmallows on sticks or uncoiled coat hangers, and roasting them over the fire.  roasted marshmallows may also be used for s'mores.

ash tradition.
the campfire ash tradition exists in scouting all over the world.  there may be an introduction and closing to it at the end of a campfire ceremony or individuals may partake of this tradition on their own.

lord robert baden-powell, the founder of scouting and the chief scout of the world, used to collect some of the ashes from each scouting event and carry them with him to the next event. he would mix the ashes of the old fire with the new one. as this tradition has spread, scouts from around the world have shared campfires and ashes with each other. lists have been kept of the events where they have been shared. these lists form a history and a bond between scouts and scouters over the years; regardless of the distance, language, culture or uniform.  these ashes represent the friendship and scouting spirit shared by scouts and guides at campfires around the world.

extinguishing the fire.
leaving a fire unattended is dangerous.  any number of accidents might occur in the absence of people, leading to property damage, personal injury or possibly a wildfire.  ash is a very good insulator, so embers left overnight will only lose a fraction of their heat.  it is even possible to restart the new day's fire by using the embers vice an igniting device.

large amounts of water are indispensable for extinguishing a fire.  to properly cool a fire, water should be splashed on all the embers, including places that are not glowing red.  splashing the water is both more effective and efficient in extinguishing the fire.  the water will boil violently and carry ash in the air with it, dirtying anything nearby but not posing a safety hazard.  the water should be poured until the hissing noises stop.  then the ashes should be stirred with a stick to make sure that the water has penetrated all the layers; if the hissing continues, more water should be added.  a fire is fully extinguished if the ashes are cool to the touch.

if water is scarce, sand may be used.  the sand will deprive the fire of oxygen quite well, but it is much less effective than water at absorbing heat.  once the fire has been covered thoroughly with sand, all water that can be spared should be poured on it, and the sand stirred into the ash.

finally, in lightly-used wilderness areas, it is best to replace anything that was moved while preparing the fire site, and scatter anything that was gathered, so that it looks as natural as possible.

see also.
cooking on a campfire;
camping;
fire pan;

references.
campfire ash tradition;
campfire recipes;



















</doc>
<doc id="788240" title="frank stanton" nonfiltered="711" processed="700" dbindex="719">


frank nicholas stanton (march 20 1908 - december 24 2006) was an american broadcasting executive who served as the president of cbs between 1946 and 1971 and then vice chairman until 1973. he also served as the chairman of the rand corporation from 1961 until 1967.

along with william s. paley, stanton is credited with the significant growth of cbs into a communications powerhouse. he was also known for his keen sense of corporate style. that ranged from the standards he espoused as a broadcasting executive, to the design of everything from the company's current headquarters (black rock) to corporate stationery.

stanton was born in muskegon, michigan and attended high school in dayton, ohio. he then attended ohio wesleyan university in delaware, ohio, receiving a b.a. in 1930. he taught for one year in the manual arts department of a high school in dayton, and then attended ohio state university, from where he received his ph.d. in 1935. he also held a diploma from the american board of professional psychology.  soon after earning his ph.d., stanton joined the cbs research department. during world war ii, he consulted for the office of war information, the secretary of war and the department of the navy, while serving as a vice president at cbs.

stanton organized the first televised presidential debate in american history. after an eight-year effort, he finally managed to get the federal communications commission (fcc) to suspend section 315 of the communications act of 1934 for the election in 1960 to test a televised debate. the reason that section 315 needed to be suspended was because it stated that equal air time must be given to all the candidates. the first debate was held and televised in the cbs studio in chicago, with candidates john f. kennedy and richard nixon. after the debate, stanton met with richard j. daley, the mayor of chicago, who decided that after seeing the debate he would tell his men to go all out for kennedy.

the debates, however, ceased after the 1960 election, as lyndon b. johnson avoided debating in 1964, and nixon, widely perceived to have made a poor impression on television viewers in 1960, declined to debate in 1968 and in 1972. thus televised presidential debates did not resume until 1976, when incumbent president gerald ford, perceiving he was behind in the polls, agreed to debate challenger jimmy carter.

stanton was revered both as a spokesman for the broadcast industry before congress, and his passionate support of broadcast journalism and journalists. former cbs news president richard s. salant - widely considered the greatest-ever chief of a network news division - himself praised stanton as a corporate mentor and statesman.

while edward r. murrow's 1958 speech before the radio and television news directors association is often praised for its call for a deeper commitment among broadcasters to public service, stanton in may 1959 (speaking before his graduate alma mater, ohio state) also voiced his own commitment to public affairs. he promised that the following year, cbs would air a frequent prime-time public-affairs series, a series which later became cbs reports. a few months later, in an october 1959 speech before the same rtnda that murrow had addressed in 1958, stanton promised there would be no repeat of the program deceptions embodied by the quiz show scandals.

as president of cbs, stanton's greatest battle with the government occurred in 1971, and focused on just this parallel to print press rights. the controversy surrounded "the selling of the pentagon," a cbs reports documentary, which exposed the huge expenditure of public funds, partly illegal, to promote militarism. the confrontation raised the issue of whether television news programming deserved protection under the first amendment.

against threat of jail, stanton refused the subpoena from the house commerce committee ordering him to provide copies of the outtakes and scripts from the documentary. he claimed that such materials are protected by the freedom of the press guaranteed by the first amendment. stanton observed that if such subpoena actions were allowed, there would be a "chilling effect" upon broadcast journalism.

for his efforts in that situation, stanton was awarded one of three personal peabody awards (the others coming in 1959 and 1960). he also shared two other peabodys that were awarded to cbs as a network (see list of peabody award winners).

stanton led the fight for color television. on june 25 1951, stanton appeared on an hour-long special, premiere, with robert alda, faye emerson, ed sullivan, arthur godfrey, william paley and others to introduce the cbs color sequential system of color tv. the cbs system was not compatible with existing black-and-white tv sets, and the fcc ultimately chose the rca system of broadcasting color tv .

also in 1951, stanton created an office to review the political leanings of cbs employees during the blacklist maintained by the tv networks. good night, and good luck (2005), the movie portraying this era directed by george clooney, left stanton out of the film as a character, partly because stanton was still living and might have objected to his portrayal.

stanton played a role in the infamous controversy involving arthur godfrey, cbs's top money-earner in the early 1950s. godfrey insisted that the cast members of two of his three cbs shows, a group of singers known as the "little godfreys," refrain from hiring managers. when one, julius larosa, hired a manager following a minor dispute with godfrey, the star consulted with stanton, who suggested he release the popular larosa, then a rising star, on the air   just as he'd hired him on the air in 1951. on october 19, 1953, godfrey fired larosa on the air, without larosa's knowing it was coming. the move caused an enormous backlash against godfrey. stanton later told godfrey biographer arthur singer, author of the book arthur godfrey: the adventures of an american broadcaster, that "maybe (the recommendation) was a mistake."

when william golden tried to prepare a new logo shortly after the famous cbs "eye symbol," (pictured) stanton overruled him: "just when you're beginning to be bored by what you've done is when it's beginning to be noticed by your audience."  the decision stuck.

stanton died in his sleep at his home in boston, massachusetts on december 24, 2006 at the age of 98.

legacy.
the frank stanton studios in los angeles house minnesota public radio's marketplace productions .

reference.
the new york times, december 26 2006: "frank stanton, broadcasting pioneer, dies at 98." dr. frank stanton, a central figure in the development of television broadcasting in the united states and the industry s most articulate and persuasive spokesman during his nearly three decades as president of cbs, died sunday afternoon at his home in boston, elizabeth allison, a longtime friend, said today. he was 98 and had been in declining health, she said .

external links.
"the memoirs of frank stanton" (apm/mpr);
bio: museum of broadcast communications;
tv week.com obituary;
;












</doc>
<doc id="413094" title="miles franklin" nonfiltered="712" processed="701" dbindex="720">

miles franklin (born "stella maria sarah miles franklin"; october 14, 1879 september 19, 1954) was an australian writer.  she was born at talbingo, new south wales and grew up in the brindabella valley.

franklin is best known for my brilliant career, the story of an irrepressible teenage feminist growing to womanhood in rural new south wales. this heroine, sybylla melvyn, is one of the most endearing characters in australian literature and obviously has much in common with franklin herself, who wrote the novel while she was still a teenager. after its publication in 1901, franklin tried a career in nursing, and then as a housemaid in sydney and melbourne. whilst doing this she contributed pieces to the daily telegraph and the sydney morning herald under the pseudonyms "an old bachelor" and "vernacular." during this period she wrote my career goes bung in which sybylla encounters the sydney literary set. the book proved too hot to publish and would not become available to the public until 1946. 

in 1906, franklin moved to the usa and undertook secretarial work for alice henry, another australian, at the national women's trade union league in chicago, and co-edited the league's magazine, life and labor.  her years in the u.s. are reflected in on dearborn street (not published until 1981), a love story that utilizes american slang in a manner not dissimilar to the early work of dashiell hammett. also while in america she wrote some everyday folk and dawn (1909), the story of a small-town australian family, that uses purple prose for deliberate comic effect. in 1915, she travelled to england and worked in the scottish women's hospital at ostrovo in the serbian campaigns of 1917-1918. her life in england in the 1920s gave rise to bring the monkey (1933), a spoof (but with dark undertones) on the english country house mystery novel. (this book contains an interesting expansion of the concept of mateship, with two australian adventuresses and a hindu man forming a common front against scotland yard and the toffs.) franklin resettled back in australia in 1932. during that decade she wrote several historical novels of the australian bush. although most of these were published under the pseudonym "brent of bin bin," her masterpiece all that swagger (1936)--a family chronicle novel packed with memorable characters--was published under her own name.

miles franklin died in 1954. in her will she bequeathed her estate to establish an annual literary award known as the miles franklin award.

a revival of interest in franklin occurred in the wake of the celebrated australian new wave film "my brilliant career" (1979). although finely acted and with gorgeous cinematography, the film failed to fully capture sybylla as a comic type thanks to limitations in the script. nevertheless it has probably guaranteed that the novel on which it is based will now remain in print indefinitely throughout the english speaking world. significant readership for franklin's other novels unfortunately remains restricted to australia.

she also had a school named after her, miles franklin primary school, which is in evatt in the act. every year there they have a day to celebrate her and they have a writing competition to go with the day.



selected works.
novels.
my brilliant career 1901;
some everyday folk and dawn 1909;
old blastus of bandicoot 1931;
bring the monkey 1933;
all that swagger 1936;
pioneers on parade 1939 - with dymphna cusack;
my career goes bung 1946;
on dearborn street 1981;

under the pseudonym of "brent of bin bin".
up the country 1928;
ten creeks run 1930;
back to bool bool 1931;
prelude to waking 1950;
cockatoos 1955;
gentleman at gyang gyang 1956;

non-fiction.
joseph furphy: the legend of a man and his book 1944;
laughter, not for a cage 1956;
childhood at brindabella 1963;

 external links .
 ;
 miles franklin: a brilliant career? / state library of new south wales exhibition guide;









</doc>
<doc id="2530211" title="coastal air" nonfiltered="713" processed="702" dbindex="721">
coastal air transport is a st. croix, u.s. virgin islands based airline that provides regular and on-demand service to several caribbean destinations including nevis and st. kitts.




</doc>
<doc id="7260821" title="sandra mccoy" nonfiltered="714" processed="703" dbindex="722">

sandra christina mccoy (born august 14, 1979) is an american actress who is best known for her role in the 2005 thriller cry_wolf.

early life.
mccoy was born to a filipino/irish family, and raised in san jose, california.  she started training in gymnastics and dance at the age of eight, and was on her high school cheerleading squad, as well as soccer and diving teams. her parents and younger brother passed away in 1993 in an airplane accident that left mccoy the only survivor. mccoy received a bachelor's degree in psychology from santa clara university.

career.
mccoy moved to los angeles to pursue a career in hollywood after graduating college. her big break into the business was the lead role in the 'n sync "pop" music video. she has had many small film roles as an actress and dancer, and also starred in several national commercials. she was a cheerleader for the los angeles lakers in the 2002 2003 season.

mccoy guest-starred on many television shows before landing lead roles in several films. she is well known for her starring role as mercedes in 2005's cry_wolf,

filmography.





external links.
 official site;
 sandra mccoy fansite at myspace.com;
 ;
 sandra-mccoy.com - fansite;





</doc>
<doc id="2108120" title="master drummer" nonfiltered="715" processed="704" dbindex="723">
the title of master drummer is given to a drummer who is recognized by other masters for his high degree of skill and knowledge in african drumming.  the title itself is very much respected in the culture where it originates. it is a title that it is passed down from a master to his pupil, after he has learned all there is to know about the african drum.  in general, a master drummer has devoted his whole life to the drum.  he is able to play any part of any rhythm for his ethnic group and neighboring ethnic groups, in any ceremonial situation.  he also knows the songs and dances that go with each rhythm.  his mission is to be a teacher, an oral historian and a custodian of his people's heritage.

examples.
 mamady ke\efta;
 famoudou konat\e9;
 abdoulaye diakite;





</doc>
<doc id="4143653" title="mercedes-benz w208" nonfiltered="716" processed="705" dbindex="724">


the mercedes-benz w208 coupes and convertibles were produced from 1998 to 2002. they were sold under the clk-class model names. the w208 models were the clk 200 4-cylinder, clk230 4-cylinder, clk 320 v6, clk 430 v8 and clk 55 amg. all models were available in both coupe and cabriolet form.

the clk introduced a new market niche for mercedes-benz. although the w208 used components from the e-class and had a specification level higher than the e-class, it was in fact based on the c-class platform.

the clk features a number of innovative accessories and systems, such as tow-away protection and an emergency transmission mode.

the clk 430, although not branded as such, is in fact also an amg model.

the w208 was succeeded by the w209, also called the clk.









</doc>
<doc id="1101035" title="southland plains" nonfiltered="717" processed="706" dbindex="725">

the southland plains is a general name given to several areas of low-lying land in the south island of new zealand, separated by the rise of the hokonui hills in the north.

the plains can be divided into two broad areas. these two areas are separated by the uplands of the hokonui hills, which lie to the west of gore.

the northwestern area lies to the north of the city of invercargill, and is formed by several large rivers, the aparima, the oreti, and the makarewa. they stretch inland for over 45 kilometres from the coast of the foveaux strait, and cover an area of close to 1500 km2.

to the northeast of invercargill, the plains of the mataura river and its tributary the waimea river stretch inland as far as the town of gore. at their southern extreme they become the awarua plain, a large area of marshy land which stretches from near bluff to the foot of the catlins in the far east. between them, the lowlands around the awarua plain and mataura river cover a further 2000 km2. 

a further small area to the west, around the mouth of the waiau river, can calso be considered part of the plains.

the southland plains include some of new zealand's most fertile farmland.



</doc>
<doc id="4117146" title="four seasons (solitaire)" nonfiltered="718" processed="707" dbindex="726">
four seasons is a solitaire card game which is played with a deck of playing cards. it is given the more appropriate alternate names of corner card and vanishing cross because of where the foundations are placed and the arrangement of the tableau respectively.

first, five cards are dealt in form of a cross: three cards are placed in a row, then two cards are each placed above and below the middle of the three cards. a sixth card is dealt in the upper left corner of the cross. this card will be the base for the first of four foundations. the three cards of the same rank are placed in the other three corners of the cross to become the foundations themselves.

the foundations are built up in suit and building is round-the-corner, i.e. aces are placed above kings, except when aces are the foundation bases.

cards in the cross are built down regardless of suit and any space in the cross is filled with any available card, whether it is the top card of a pile within the cross, the top card of the wastepile, or a card from the stock. like the foundations, building in the cross is round-the-corner, i.e. kings are placed over aces, unless aces are the foundations. only one card can be moved at a time.

whenever the game goes on a standstill, the stock is dealt one card at a time into the wastepile, the top card of which is available for play on the cross or on the foundations. there is no redeal.

the game ends when goes on another standstill after the stock has run out. the game is won when all cards end up in the foundations.

variations.
below are the variations of four seasons:
in czarina, any space in the cross is immediately filled only from the stock.
in corners, the cross is in fact a reserve, not a tableau, and each space is a cell, which should have room for only one card. empty cells in this game are filled immediately from the stock.
simplicity is played like four seasons. the only exception is that the tableau (instead of a cross) contains twelve cards dealt into two rows of six. the thirteenth card deal becomes the base of the first formation. also, building in the tableau is down by alternating colors.

see also: solitaire terminology


</doc>
<doc id="1888324" title="kingston memorial centre" nonfiltered="719" processed="708" dbindex="727">
the kingston memorial centre (originally the kingston community war memorial arena) is a 3,300-seat multi-purpose arena in kingston, ontario, canada. it was built in 1950. the memorial centre has a large ice pad, outdoor pool, softball diamonds and a cinder track, and is home to the kingston frontenacs ice hockey team.

the kingston memorial centre hosts the kingston fall fair, and as an entertainment venue, has hosted the world wrestling entertainment (wwe), wayne newton, our lady peace and alice cooper.

in may 2006 kingston city council announced that they would be building a new downtown arena to replace the memorial centre. the city hopes to have the new building finished by december 2007.

kingston memorial centre the ohl arena & travel guide;












</doc>
<doc id="1572828" title="piccadilly circus (band)" nonfiltered="720" processed="709" dbindex="728">
 

for the area in london, england of the same name, see piccadilly circus.;

piccadilly circus is the name of a japanese band on the sony music label. members of the band include masamichi sugi (japanese:     ) (guitar), kiyonori matsuo (     ) (guitar), hiroyuki izuta (      ) (keyboard), masatoshi ueda (     ) (drums), azuma kazamatsuri (    ) (bass) and tetsu hashimoto (    ) (guitar). all members of the band (except for hashimoto) are also vocals. the band has published two albums thus far: piccadilly circus in february 1999, and summer of love in december 2003.

external links.

 sony music site;
 official site;



</doc>
<doc id="747731" title="george russell" nonfiltered="721" processed="710" dbindex="729">
this article is about the jazz composer george russell. for the poet "\c6"  of the same name, see george william russell.;

george allen russell (born june 23, 1923) is an american jazz composer and theorist.  he is considered one of the first jazz musicians to contribute to general music theory, with his 1953 book,  the lydian chromatic concept of tonal organization (2001: isbn 0-9703739-0-2).  

background.
russell was born in cincinnati, ohio, the adopted son of a nurse and a chef on the b & o railroad, and made his stage debut at age seven, singing "moon over miami" with fats waller. surrounded by the music of the black church and the big bands which played on the ohio riverboats, and with a father who was a music educator at oberlin college, he started playing drums with the boy scouts, receiving a scholarship to wilberforce university, where he joined the collegians, a band noted as a breeding ground for great jazz musicians including ben webster, coleman hawkins, and benny carter. russell served in that band at the same time as another noted jazz composer, ernie wilkins.  when called up for the draft at the beginning of world war ii, he was quickly hospitalized with tuberculosis, where he was taught the fundamentals of music theory by a fellow patient. 

early career.
after his release from the hospital, he played drums with benny carter's band, but decided to give up drumming as a vocation after hearing max roach, who replaced him in the orchestra. inspired by hearing thelonious monk's "'round midnight", russell moved to new york in the early 1940s, where he became a member of a coterie of young innovators who frequented the 55th street apartment of gil evans, a clique which included miles davis, charlie parker, gerry mulligan, and john lewis of the modern jazz quartet.

it was a remark made by miles davis in 1945 when russell asked him his musical aim that led russell on a quest which was to become his life's work. davis answered that his musical aim was "to learn all the changes." knowing that davis already knew how to arpeggiate each chord, russell reasoned that he really meant that he wanted to find a new and broader way to relate to chords.

in 1945-46, russell was again hospitalized for tuberculosis for 16 months. forced to turn down work as charlie parker's drummer, during that time he worked out the basic tenets of what was to become his lydian chromatic concept of tonal organization, a theory encompassing all of equal tempered music which has been influential well beyond the boundaries of jazz. the first edition of his book was published by russell in 1953, while he worked as a salesclerk at macy's. at that time, russell's ideas were a crucial step into the modal music of john coltrane and miles davis on his classic recording, kind of blue, and served as a beacon for other modernists such as eric dolphy and art farmer.

while working on the theory, russell was also applying its principles to composition. his first famous composition was for the dizzy gillespie orchestra, the two-part "cubano be, cubano bop" (1947) and part of that band's pioneering experiments in fusing bebop and cuban jazz elements; "a bird in igor's yard" (a tribute to both charlie parker and igor stravinsky) was recorded in a session led by buddy defranco the next year.

russell began playing piano, leading a series of groups which included bill evans, art farmer, hal mccusick, barry galbraith, milt hinton, paul motian, and others. jazz workshop was his first album as leader, and one where he played relatively little, as opposed to masterminding the events (rather like his colleague gil evans). he was to record a number of impressive albums over the next several years, sometimes as primary pianist.

in 1957, on a commission from brandeis university, russell wrote a suite for orchestra, all about rosie, which featured bill evans.

members of the orchestra on his 1958 extended work, new york, new york, included bill evans, john coltrane, art farmer, milt hinton, bob brookmeyer, max roach, among others, and featured wrap-around raps by singer/lyricist jon hendricks.

jazz in the space age was an even more ambitious big band album, featuring the unusual dual piano voicings of bill evans and paul bley. 

at the end of the decade, russell formed his own sextet. between 1960 and 1963, the russell sextet featured musicians like don cherry, sheila jordan, david baker, and steve swallow. meanwhile, his small-group recordings included memorable sessions with eric dolphy and singer sheila jordan (their bleak version of "you are my sunshine" is highly regarded).

sojourn in europe.
in 1964, russell toured europe with his sextet and stayed on to live in scandinavia for the next five years. through the early 1970s, russell did most of his work in norway and sweden. he played there with young musicians who would go on to international fame: guitarist terje rypdal, saxophonist jan garbarek and drummer jon christensen. this scandinavian period also provided opportunities to write for larger groupings, and russell's larger-scale compositions of this time pursue his idea of "vertical form", which he described as "layers or strata  of divergent modes of rhythmic behaviour". the electronic sonata for souls loved by nature, commissioned by bosse broberg of swedish radio to write for the radio orchestra, was first recorded in 1968, and was the first extended work to be recorded with electronic tape.  it continued russell's continuing exploration of new approaches and new instrumentation.  

academia.
russell returned to america in 1969, when gunther schuller assumed the presidency of the new england conservatory of music and appointed russell to teach the lydian concept in the newly created jazz studies department, a position he held for decades.

later works.
in the 1970's russell was commissioned to write and record 3 major works: listen to the silence, a mass for orchestra and chorus for the norwegian cultural fund; living time, commissioned by bill evans for columbia records; and vertical form vi for the swedish radio.

with living time (1972), russell reunited with bill evans to offer a suite of compositions which represent the stages of human life.  his live in an american time spiral featured many young new york players who would go on to greatness, including tom harrell and ray anderson.  when he was able to form an orchestra for his 1985 work the african game, he dubbed it the living time orchestra. this 14-member ensemble toured europe and the u.s., doing frequent weeks at the village vanguard, and was praised by new york magazine as "the most exciting orchestra to hit the city in years."

the work the african game, a 45-minute opus for 25 musicians, was described by robert palmer of the new york times as "one of the most important new releases of the past several decades" and earned russell two grammy nominations in 1985.

russell wrote 9 extended pieces after 1984, among them: timeline for symphonic orchestra, jazz orchestra, chorus, klezmer band and soloists, composed for the new england conservatory's 125th anniversary; a re-orchestration of living time for russell's orchestra and additional musicians, commissioned by the cit\e9 de la musique in paris in 1994; and it's about time, co-commissioned by the arts council of england and the swedish concert bureau in 1995.

theories.
russell's theory proposes the concept of playing jazz based on scales or a series of scales (modes) rather than chords or harmonies.  the lydian chromatic concept explored the vertical relationship between chords and scales, and was the first codified original theory to come from jazz. russell's ideas influenced the development of modal jazz, notably in the album jazz workshop (1957, with bill evans and featuring the "concerto for billy the kid") as well as his writings; evans later introduced the concepts to other members of miles davis's working band, which employed them in recordings beginning with the album kind of blue.


awards.
he received a macarthur foundation "genius" grant in 1989.  in his career, russell also received the 1990 national endowment for the arts american jazz master award, two guggenheim fellowships, and the british jazz award, among others. he has taught throughout the world, and has been guest conductor for german, italian, danish, finnish, norwegian, and swedish radio groups.

external links.
george russell;
lydian chromatic concept;



















</doc>
<doc id="3440342" title="legislative assembly of the province of canada" nonfiltered="722" processed="711" dbindex="730">
the legislative assembly of the province of canada was the legislature for the province of canada, which consisted of the former provinces of lower canada, then known as canada east and later the province of quebec, and upper canada, then known as canada west and later the province of ontario. it was created by the union act  of 1840. canada east and canada west each elected 42 members to the assembly.

the first session of parliament began in kingston in canada west in 1841.

the second parliament and the first sessions of the third parliament were held in montreal. on april 25 1849, rioters protesting the rebellion losses bill burned the parliament buildings. the remaining sessions of the third parliament were held in toronto. subsequent parliaments were held in quebec city and toronto, except for the last session in 1866 of the eight and final parliament, which was held in ottawa, the capital chosen for the dominion of canada.

the british north america act of 1867 divided the province of canada into the provinces of ontario and quebec, each province having its own legislative assembly, as well as representation in the parliament of canada.

 list of parliaments .
1st parliament of the province of canada 1841-1843;
2nd parliament of the province of canada 1844-1847;
3rd parliament of the province of canada 1848-1851;
4th parliament of the province of canada 1852-1854;
5th parliament of the province of canada 1854-1857;
6th parliament of the province of canada 1858-1861;
7th parliament of the province of canada 1861-1863;
8th parliament of the province of canada 1863-1866;

 references .
upper canadian politics in the 1850's, underhill (and others), university of toronto press (1967);

 external links .
 ontario's parliament buildings ; or, a century of legislation, 1792-1892 : a historical sketch;
 assembl\e9e nationale du qu\e9bec (french);



</doc>
<doc id="6642058" title="stop making sense (album)" nonfiltered="723" processed="712" dbindex="731">


the soundtrack album to the film of the same name was released in 1984 which featured only nine of the songs from the movie, many of them heavily edited. 

byrne's intention was not to make a traditional soundtrack album, but to have it be a separate experience.  the most noticeable difference is that all of chris frantz's acoustic drumming is replaced with synthesized drum sounds, most likely triggered samples. limited pressings of the original lp version featured a full color picture book wrapped around the album jacket.  regular versions had many of the pictures and captions on the album's inner sleeve. in 1999, to correspond with the theatrical re-release of the movie, the album was extended and remastered, restoring all of the songs from the movie with only very minor edits. the newly included tracks feature frantz's original drumming from the concert recordings. 

track listing.
original soundtrack.
all songs by david byrne, chris frantz, jerry harrison, tina weymouth unless otherwise noted
 "psycho killer" (byrne, frantz, weymouth)   4:28;
 "swamp"   4:28;
 "slippery people"   4:13;
 "burning down the house"   4:14;
 "girlfriend is better"   5:07;
 "once in a lifetime" (byrne, brian eno, frantz, harrison, weymouth)   5:34;
 "what a day that was" (byrne)   6:30;
 "life during wartime" (byrne)   5:52;
 "take me to the river (al green, teenie hodges)   5:59;

film/special edition soundtrack.
 "psycho killer" (byrne, frantz, weymouth)   4:24;
 "heaven" (byrne, harrison)   3:41;
 "thank you for sending me an angel" (byrne)  2:09;
 "found a job" (byrne)  3:15;
 "slippery people"   4:00;
 "burning down the house"   4:06;
 "life during wartime" (byrne)   5:51;
 "making flippy floppy"   4:40;
 "swamp"   4:30;
 "what a day that was" (byrne)   6:00;
 "this must be the place (na\efve melody)"   4:57;
 "once in a lifetime" (byrne, eno, frantz, harrison, weymouth)   5:25;
 "genius of love" (weymouth, frantz, adrian belew, steven stanley) (performed by tom tom club)   4:30;
 "girlfriend is better"   5:06;
 "take me to the river" (green, hodges)   5:32;
 "crosseyed and painless" (byrne, eno, frantz, harrison, weymouth)   6:11;

personnel.
david byrne   guitar, vocals;
chris frantz   drums, vocals;
jerry harrison   guitar, keyboards, vocals;
tina weymouth   bass, vocals;
additional personnel.
bernie worrell   keyboards;
alex weir   guitar, vocals;
steve scales  percussion;
ednah holt   backing vocals;
lynn mabry   backing vocals;
lani weymouth - vocals on "genius of love";
laura weymouth - vocals on "genius of love";

charts.
album


certifications.










</doc>
<doc id="5964163" title="dorapion" nonfiltered="724" processed="713" dbindex="732">


 is one of the  fictional species of pok\e9mon creatures from the multi-billion-dollar pok\e9mon media franchise   a collection of video games, anime, manga, books, trading cards and other media, created by satoshi tajiri. dorapion is famous for being one of the pok\e9mon revealed before the japanese release of pok\e9mon diamond and pearl, alongside cherrim and pachirisu. the purpose of dorapion in the games, anime and manga, as with all other pok\e9mon, is to battle both wild pok\e9mon, untamed creatures encountered while the player passes through various environments, and tamed pok\e9mon owned by pok\e9mon trainers.

its japanese name is a combination of both , the transliteration of dragon, and the english word scorpion.

biological characteristics.
dorapion appears to be a more detailed scorpion, with two large claws, four short legs and what appears to be another claw on its tail. it has a vicious appearance like gyarados, with a big jaw and menacing teeth. its whole body is purple and fuschia broken into multiple round segements. it is very different from its pre-evolution, scorpi, which is merely an ordinary scorpion.

it is able to turn its head around 180 degrees, and since its arms are directly attached to its head, it has virtually no blind spots. it can also crush cars with its claws.

in the video games.
dorapion has two possible abilities: battle armor, which prevents dorapion from receiving critical hits; or snipe, which increases the base value of attacks when dorapion lands a critical hit. as a pok\e9mon with a type combination of poison and dark-type, dorapion is immune to psychic-type attacks, which are usually problems for poison-type pok\e9mon. dorapion's only type weakness is the ground-type.

dorapion is one of the four pok\e9mon that can learn cross poison by level up (although five other pokemon learn it by breeding), a move that has a high critical hit ratio and may induce poison. 

dorapion can be obtained by two ways, either by catching it at the safari zone, or by evolving a scorpi at level 40. its greatest assets are its defense, with a base stat of 110, speed, with a base stat of 95, and attack, with a base stat of 90. these stats make dorapion a quick and lasting physical sweeper.

dorapion is used by the first member of the sinnoh elite four, ry , at level 57, making it ry 's strongest pok\e9mon.

references.




external links.
official pok\e9mon website;
bulbapedia (a pok\e9mon-centric wiki) s article about dorapion as a species;
;
psypoke pok\e9dex entry;
japanese pok\e9mon website;








</doc>
<doc id="1708647" title="beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist" nonfiltered="725" processed="714" dbindex="733">
beta2-adrenergic receptor agonists are a class of drugs used to treat asthma and other pulmonary disease states. 

they can be divided into two groups:

(1) short-acting and 
(2) long-acting.

they act on the  2-adrenergic receptor, thereby causing smooth muscle relaxation resulting in dilation of bronchial passages, vasodilation in muscle and liver, relaxation of uterine muscle and release of insulin.  side effects as insomnia, anxiety, and tremor occur in some patients.  all  2 agonists are available in inhaler form (either metered-dose inhalers, which aerosolize the drug, or dry powder which can be breathed in).  

salbutamol (known as albuterol in the u.s.) also comes in a liquid form for nebulization, which is more commonly used in emergency rooms than inhalers.  salbutamol and terbutaline are also both available in oral forms.  

in addition, several of these medications are available in intravenous forms including both salbutamol and terbutaline. it can be used in this form in severe cases of asthma, but more commonly it is used to suppress premature labor because it also relaxes uterine muscle, thereby inhibiting contractions.

on november 18, 2005, food and drug administration (fda) alerted health care professionals and patients that several long-acting bronchodilator medicines have been associated with possible increased risk of worsening wheezing (bronchospasm) in some people, and requested that manufacturers update warnings in their existing product labeling.

on june 29, 2006, cornell university and stanford university researchers reported that a meta-analysis they conducted found that "regularly inhaled beta-agonists (metaproterenol , formoterol , salmeterol advair and albuterol ventolin, volmax and others) increased the risk of respiratory death more than twofold, compared with a placebo," while used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd).

short-acting beta2 agonists
salbutamol (albuterol);
levalbuterol;
terbutaline;
pirbuterol;
procaterol;
metaproterenol;
fenoterol;
bitolterol mesylate;

long-acting beta2 agonists
salmeterol;
formoterol;
bambuterol;

references.
ramanujan k. common beta-agonist inhalers more than double death rate in copd patients, cornell and stanford scientists assert. chronicle online. june 29, 2006. available at: http://www.news.cornell.edu/stories/june06/salpeter.copd.kr.html. accessed june 30, 2006.







</doc>
<doc id="6160283" title="inhulets river" nonfiltered="726" processed="715" dbindex="734">


the inhulets () is a river, a right tributary of the dnieper river, which flows through ukraine. it has a length of 549 km and a drainage basin of 14,870 km\b2.

the inhulets river takes its source in the dnieper highlands in the proximaty of the city of kirovohrad in the ukrainian province of kirovohrad, about 30 km away from the dnieper river itself, with which it flows parallel to. the inhulets then turns south, where it flows through the dnipropetrovsk, kherson, and mykolaiv oblasts, before finally flowing approx. 30 km east of the city of kherson into the dnieper. 

while flowing near the city of kryvyi rih, the river is has created many small islands, which have a rich vegetation. however, the vegetation is impaired by the high level of contamination of the river, due to the nearby mining industry.

important tributaries of the inhulets river are the saksahan and the vysun rivers. cities and town located on the river include: zaporizhzhia, the administrative center of the zaporizhia oblast, kryvyi rih, inhulets, and snihurivka.








</doc>
<doc id="7717708" title="equix" nonfiltered="727" processed="716" dbindex="735">
equix biomechanics is a company in lexington, kentucky, which analyzes the physiology of  thoroughbred racehorses to determine what factors into their success, and uses this knowledge to analyze the potential of horses and suggest possible breedings which may prove successful. 

references.

thoroughbred times: today's news archive for july 23, 2002: equix biomechanics partners split up;
rockne, dick, "horse racing: hodge on 'special ride' - breeders' cup is his next stop", seattle post-intelligencer, october 28, 2006 (mentions that owner's decision to keep a horse was based on a report from equix);
;
times-picayune, the (new orleans, louisiana), may 26, 1992 thoroughbred evaluation gets technical;


external link.
company web page;





</doc>
<doc id="1841039" title="hyderabad public school" nonfiltered="728" processed="717" dbindex="736">
the hyderabad public school, begumpet (hps, begumpet), begumpet, is one of the oldest and most prestigious public schools in hyderabad and andhra pradesh. it was established in 1923 as a school for the members of the then indian aristocracy. it is situated on a lush 160 acre campus with majestic buildings. children are schooled from pre-primary school through the 12th standard (age 3 to age 17). instruction is provided on a wide range of subjects. the school is affliated to the council for the indian school certification examinations (icse, isc). its administrative body is the non profit organisation: hyderabad public school society, which also manages the hyderabad public school, ramanthapur. 

history.

the institution was first established in 1923 in the erstwhile princely state of hyderabad due to the initiative of mr. h. wakefield under the nizam of hyderabad (the erstwhile royal family of hyderabad) and was meant exclusively for the education of the sons of the jagirdars. its first principal, mr. shawcross, might be called the founder of the jagirdar's college. it was the first residential school catering to the sons of the jagirdars and zamindars in those days. 

after the abolition of the jagirdari/zamindari system in 1950, the indian government decided that the jagirdar's college should be converted to an independent public school, thus throwing open its portals to all, irrespective of class or creed. the jagirdar's college was reorganised in 1951 as the hyderabad public school and was affiliated as a member of the indian public schools conference (ipsc). in 1952, the hyderabad public school society was formed with the late dr. sarvepalli radhakrishnan, former president of india, as the first chairman of the society. mr. john w. r. kempe was appointed the first principal of the school.

the school has grown immensely in strength since then and today, it has about 3000 boys and girls from diverse backgrounds on its rolls. it boasts an excellent library, well-equipped science and computer laboratories, art rooms, carpentry and book-binding workshops, a music room, and numerous sports facilities.

since its inception in 1923, the school celebrated its golden jubilee in december 1973 and its diamond jubilee in december 1984. its platinum jubilee was celebrated in 1998.

insignia and motto.
during the jagirdar's college days, the flag had three colours - dark blue to signify oxford university, light blue to signify cambridge university and the yellow band in the centre to signify the house of asaf jah.

today, the school flag is dark blue and light blue with a golden eagle at the centre with the school motto "be vigilant" emblazoned across the lower part in bold calligraphy.

the school emblem is the eagle (called the shaheen). the eagle was chosen by the then principal mr. kempe for its sharpness of vision and its innate ability to soar to great heights. 

the school motto is "be vigilant". these words exhort young students to be mentally and physically alert, to be discerning of  life and the challenges it has to offer, and to demonstrate sharpness of vision and character to overcome them.

important buildings and halls.
the shaheen block, named after the school emblem, houses shaw cross hall (the senior school assembly hall) and turner library, both named after principals of the jagirdar's college. 

the kuruvilla jacob(science) block houses the majority of the senior school classrooms and science and computer laboratories.

the john kempe block, named after the first principal of the hyderabad public school, houses most of the primary school classrooms and the primary school library.

the purohit block, named after a former principal of the hyderabad public school, houses the remaining primary school classrooms.

the durand block, named after the second principal of the jagirdar's college, houses middle school classrooms.

 the school song .
these words were exclusively composed and set to music by the staff members when mr. a.s. arnold-brown was the principal. today, the school song is sung every monday morning at assembly.

it goes thus:

god, keep this school and all who herein dwell
safe from all harm and evil's mighty spell
teach us to live so one and all may be
proud of this land and man's equality
god grant that we may live in liberty

lead us along the path of good and right
lead us to greatness always in thy sight
all in the school who grow from year to year
may know the truth that thou art always near
and give their best without regret or fear

so in the end this school may grow in fame
all who are here may loudly sing its name
and through the years and from each day to day
may we have cause to rise and proudly say
god bless this school and all who herein dwell

the house system.
the entire student body is divided into four houses named after renowned and ancient indian universities and empires. initially, they only had two houses, the east and west wings but today there are four:

nalanda - the blue house;
nagarjuna - the red house;
taxila - the green house;
vijaynagar - the yellow house;

the prefectorial system.
the prefectorial system is a distinctive tradition of the school. a select body of students is invested (in a grand investiture ceremony which includes, among other festivities, a parade) with defined powers and privileges . the head of the student body is the head-boy. they serve to provide inspiration to the student body, and endeavour to lead it into realms of achievements. these students are chosen not only based on their academic and leadership skills but also for their sense of integrity and honour.

the school uniform.
boys must wear khaki shirts with navy-blue shoulder-tabs with a stripe of their house colour across the tabs. boys are required to wear khaki shorts till the ninth standard, and senior school boys must wear khaki trousers with their shirts tucked in and a black belt. the footwear consists of khaki socks and black shoes. girls are required to wear cream-coloured blouses under an olive-green pinafore with an olive-green cloth belt and white socks in black school shoes. prefects are given stars and/or extra stripes and badges (2 inch by 1/2 inch gold-colored eagles) each depending on their duties and are thus accoladed. school blazers (dark navy blue) and ties (dark blue with a white eagle insignia in the middle) are given to prefects. the blazers can be worn by any student (usually on special occasions).
the boys' physical education/games uniform consists of a white t-shirt with the eagle insignia (printed where the left breast-pocket would be) and shorts in the official house color. girls wear plain white button-down shirts and skirts colored in their official house color.
headboy-abhinav ram reddy
headgirl- sanjana
house captains
nalanda-j.vikram
nagarjuna-v.naveen 
taxlia-n.naveen
vijaynagar-fatik khan

notable alumni.
 asaduddin owaisi, member of parliament, hyderabad, india;
 akkineni nagarjuna, actor;
 gaddam vinod, minister of labour, andhra pradesh, hyderabad, india;
 harsha bhogle, journalist and cricket commentator;
 kanumuri bapi raju, ex-member of indian parliament;
 konda vishveshwar reddy, chairman, ceo, citadel india;
 mani shankar, film-maker;
 m m pallam raju, minster of state for defence, india;
 satya nadella, corporate vice-president, microsoft business solutions;
 shantanu narayen, coo, adobe systems;
 talat aziz, ghazal singer;
 v. prem watsa, chairman, ceo, fairfax financial holdings, canada;
 yarlagadda sumanth kumar, actor;
 y.s. jagan mohan reddy, politician;

list of principals.
principals of the jagirdar's college
1. mr. h.w. shaw cross: from june 1924 to october 1928
2. mr. p.f. durand: from october 1928 to march 1937
3. mr. e.e.s. peight: from march to april 1937 (officiating principal) 
4. mr. k.a. lateef: from april 1937 to july 1938
5. mr. f.w. turner: from august 1938 to february 1947
6. mr. k.a. lateef: from february 1947 to september 1951

principals of the hyderabad public school
7. mr. j.m.r. kempe: from september 1952 to august 1954
8. mr. r. shivraj bahadur: from september 1952 to august 1954
9. mr. a.s. arnold brown: from september 1955 to june 1958
10. mr. r. shivraj bahadur: from june 1958 to july 1960
11. mr. j. wellington: from june 1960 to july 1962 (in charge principal)
12. mr. k. kuruvilla jacob: from september 1962 to october 1968
13. mr. m.c. watsa: from january 1969 to june 1972
14. lt. col. y.r. puri: from june 1972 to june 1975
15. mr. n.r.k. murthy: from july 1975 to june 1976 (in charge principal)
16. mr. h.l. dutt: from june 1976 to april 1979
17. mr. d.p. purohit: from april 1979 to april 1984
18. mr. v.k. raman: from may to june 1984 (in charge principal)
19. mr. s.k. bose: from july 1984 to september 1986
20. mr. o.p. pathak: from october 1986 to june 1988 (additional charge)
21. mr. s.k. bose: from july 1988 to march 1990
22. mr. k. sambasiva rao: from april 1990 to march 1991 (in charge principal)
23. mr. m.r. jadeja: from october 1991 to march 1992
24. mr. r. sathyanarayana: from august 1992 to april 1993
25. mr. k. sambasiva rao: from may 1993 to april 1998 
26. mr. k.saisundar rao: from may 1998 to march 2000
27.mr. k.n. sardana: from april 2000 to june 2002
28. mr. h.l. chopra: from april 2003 to may 2004
29. mrs. shobhana nair: from july 2004 to october 2006
30. mr. maruthi ram prasad pelluri: from october 2006 to present

external links.
 official alumni website;
 unofficial website run by a student;






</doc>
<doc id="5652067" title="arkanoid returns" nonfiltered="729" processed="718" dbindex="737">


arkanoid returns (a.k.a. arukanoido 4) is an arcade game released by taito in 1997 as the last in the arkanoid series.

description.

the enemy known as 'doh' still did not get the message and after many years of silence decides to attack once again. the 'vaus' space vessel better be ready to face new, yet familiar challenges, in order to stop 'doh' for the last time. features 50 levels of revamped graphics and sound, the same gameplay as its predecessors, as well as plenty of power-ups to try out.

trivia.
zachary b hample holds the official world record for this game with a maximum possible 1 589 770 points. ;

series. 
1. arkanoid (1986) ;
2. arkanoid - revenge of doh (1987) ;
3. arkanoid - doh it again (1997, nintendo super nes) ;
4. arkanoid returns (1997);







</doc>
<doc id="2437613" title="wenshui road (shanghai metro)" nonfiltered="730" processed="719" dbindex="738">
wenshui road is the name of a station on shanghai metro line 1. this station is part of the northern extension of that line.



 



</doc>
<doc id="2222890" title="beogradski sindikat" nonfiltered="731" processed="720" dbindex="739">

beogradski sindikat (serbian:                     or beogradski sindikat, english: belgrade syndicate) is a popular ten-member hip-hop collective from belgrade, serbia. 
the group has released two albums: bssst...ti\a8in ina (shhh...silence) in early 2002 and svi zajedno (all together) in 2005, as well as the single govedina (beef) (september 2002), a controversial broadside against the entire serbian political scene. a similar single, oni su (they are), was released in december 2006, in the run up to a serbian parliamentary election in january 2007. one member of the group, \a6kabo (shkabo), has released a solo album, sam (alone).

the group was formed on march 21, 1999, with the merging of red zmaja and tumz together with rappers mc flex and chef sale. a new member, prota, joined in 2004.

 group members:
 bla\b8o, mc;
 ogi, mc;
 deda, mc, beatmaker;
 darko, mc;
 \a6kabo, mc, beatmaker;
 olo olo, mc;
 dajs, mc;
 mc flex, mc, beatmaker;
 chef sale, mc;
 prota, beatmaker;

 discography .
bssst...ti\a8in ina! (2002);
govedina (single) (2002);
svi zajedno (2005);
oni su (single) (2006);

 see also .
serbian hip hop;

 external links  .
 beogradski sindikat (serbian);
 \a6kabo official site (serbian);









</doc>
<doc id="4243066" title="barbara kesel" nonfiltered="732" processed="721" dbindex="740">


barbara randall kesel is a writer and editor of comic books; her bibliography includes work for dc comics, marvel comics, crossgen, and image comics. kesel initially came into the comics world after writing a 10-page letter to editor dick giordano regarding the portrayal of female comic book characters. she  was formerly married to fellow comic book writer karl kesel; however, they have since divorced. 

kesel is a very outspoken opponent of sexism in the comic book industry.

external link.
interview from 2000;










</doc>
<doc id="7574878" title="list of registered historic places in marion county, oregon" nonfiltered="733" processed="722" dbindex="741">
list of registered historic places in marion county, oregon:
see also: list of registered historic places in oregon;

marion county.
 aurora;
 aurora colony historic district;
 champoeg cemetery;
 frederick bents house;
 butteville;
 william riley scheurer house;
 champoeg;
 william case farm;
 detroit;
 breitenbush guard station;
 estacada (vicinity);
 olallie lake guard station;
 gervais;
 oliver beers house;
 sam brown house;
 willamette station site, methodist mission in oregon;
 hubbard;
 john stauffer house and barn;
 jefferson;
 hamilton campbell house;
 jacob conser house;
 james mechlin anderson house;
 jefferson methodist church;
 t.m. and emma witten drug store-house;
 marion forks;
 marion forks guard station;
 mill city (vicinity);
 hinkle-reid house;
 mount angel;
 queen of angels priory;
 st. mary's roman catholic church;
 windischar's general blacksmith shop;
 newberg;
 hudson's bay company granary and clerk's house site;
 joseph despard cabin site;
 salem;
 adolph block;
 alexander daue house;
 andrew t. gilbert house;
 asahel bush house;
 benjamin f. harding house;
 boon brick store;
 burggraf-burt-webster house;
 bush and brey block and annex;
 bush-breyman block;
 c. c. stratton house;
 carl e. nelson house;
 chemawa indian school site;
 chemeketa lodge no. 1 odd fellows buildings;
 christopher paulus building;
 court street-chemeketa street historic district;
 curtis cross house;
 daniel b. jarman house and garden;
 david mccully house;
 delaney-edwards house;
 dr. luke a. port house;
 dr. william a. cusick house;
 dr. and mrs. charles g. robertson house and garden;
 edgar t. pierce house;
 edward w. pierre house;
 elsinore theatre;
 farrar building;
 first methodist episcopal church of salem;
 frederick s. lamport house;
 gaiety hill-bush's pasture park historic district;
 george collins house;
 henry fawk house;
 j. k. gill building;
 jason lee house;
 john d. boon house;
 john and douglas minto houses;
 jones-sherman house;
 lee mission cemetery;
 marion county housing committee demonstration house;
 methodist mission parsonage;
 old first national bank building;
 old garfield school;
 oregon state capitol;
 oregon state fair stadium and poultry building ensemble;
 oregon state forester's office building;
 pleasant grove presbyterian church;
 port-manning house;
 r. c. geer farmhouse;
 r. p. boise building;
 reed opera house and mccornack block addition;
 robert witzel house;
 s. a. manning building;
 salem downtown state street-commercial street historic district;
 samuel adolph house;
 smith-ohmart house;
 south first national bank block;
 starkey-mccully block;
 t. a. livesley house;
 thomas kay woolen mill;
 u. g. shipley house and garden;
 union street railroad bridge and trestle;
 waller hall, willamette university;
 william lincoln wade house;
 santiam junction;
 oregon pacific railroad linear historic district;
 silverton;
 calvary lutheran church & parsonage;
 gallon house bridge;
 gordon house;
 mccallister-gash farmhouse;
 miller cemetery church;
 silverton commercial historic district;
 victor point school;
 st. paul;
 casper zorn farmhouse;
 champoeg state park historic archeological district;
 john w. and thomas f. kirk house;
 st. paul historic district;
 st. paul roman catholic church;
 stayton;
 charles and martha brown house;
 deidrich building (part of downtown area of stayton mps);
 mt. pleasant presbyterian church;
 paris woolen mill;
 sublimity;
 silver creek youth camp-silver falls state park;
 silver falls state park concession building area;
 woodburn;
 bank of woodburn;
 jesse h. settlemier house;
 old woodburn city hall;



</doc>
<doc id="9039892" title="wotan mit uns!" nonfiltered="734" processed="723" dbindex="742">


wotan mit uns! is a compilation album, released by ancient beliefs productions, featuring covers of songs by the black metal band burzum.

track listing.
all songs originally by burzum

 blodsrit   stemmen fra t\e5rnet;
 aruvendill   \cd heimr heljar;
 the syre   black spell of destruction;
 caitiff   erblicket die t\f6chter des firmaments;
 nargothrond   variation on illa ti\f0andi;
 forefather   beholding the daughters of the firmament;
 rodolphe   lost wisdom;
 alberich   spell of destruction;
 westwind   det som engang var;
 sentinel   key to the gate;
 pimentola/chaotic visions attack   spell of destruction;


 external links .
discography on burzum website;





</doc>
<doc id="8929278" title="edward laws" nonfiltered="735" processed="724" dbindex="743">

edward r laws is a neurosurgeon at the university of virginia in charlottesville, virginia. he graduated from johns hopkins university and now is a professor at u va.




</doc>
<doc id="2565512" title="line of fire" nonfiltered="736" processed="725" dbindex="744">
line of fire is a "political drama" television series that was broadcast on abc for 11 episodes in the winter of 2003-2004. it starred leslie bibb and jeffrey d. sams as two rookie fbi agents assigned to the bureau's richmond, virginia branch, where their story parallels that of a local mob boss jonah malloy (david paymer). when a fellow agent is murdered in a shootout with the gangsters, the head of the fbi branch (leslie hope) declares an all-out war on the criminal underworld. the following epsidodes weaved intricately between bibb and sams' federal agency and paymer's gang, though the two storylines rarely met head-on, except when occasionally focusing on an undercover agent (anson mount). the show was cancelled after just 11 episodes in june 2004, though 13 episodes in all were produced.

mob boss jonah malloy's signature line was "that's that with that."

episode listing.
1x01 "pilot" december 2, 2003;
1x02 "take the money and run" december 9, 2003;
1x03 "undercover angel" december 16, 2003;
1x04 "mockingbird" december 23, 2003;
1x05 "boom, swagger, boom" december 30, 2003;
1x06 "the best-laid plans" january 6, 2004;
1x07 "i'm your boogie man" january 13, 2004;
1x08 "mother & child reunion" january 27, 2004;
1x09 "the senator" february 3, 2004;
1x10 "born to run" (unaired);
1x11 "this land is your land" (unaired);
1x12 "eminence front: part 1" may 30, 2004;
1x13 "eminence front: part 2" may 30, 2004;

external link.
 imdb entry for line of fire;









</doc>
<doc id="5058249" title="18 fingers of death!" nonfiltered="737" processed="726" dbindex="745">


18 fingers of death! (april 11, 2006) is a parody kung-fu movie made written, directed and starring james lew.  also starring in the movie is maurice patton as ronald mack, pat morita as mr. lee, and lisa arturo as sushi cue.

external links.
 ;
 amazon.com entry;






</doc>
<doc id="4110846" title="telecommand" nonfiltered="738" processed="727" dbindex="746">



telecommand is a term used for remote control of a system or systems.

 examples .

control of a tv from the sofa, to control of a satellite from a ground station.

remote guidance of weapons or missiles;

 transmission of commands .

for a telecommand (tc) to be effective, it must be compiled into a pre-arranged format (which may follow a standard structure), modulated onto a carrier wave which is then transmitted with adequate power to the remote system. the remote system will then demodulate the digital signal from the carrier, decode the tc, and execute it.  the carrier wave can use ultrasound, infra-red or rf waves. 

 encryption .
to prevent unauthorised access to the remote system, tc encryption may be employed.






</doc>
<doc id="4420566" title="mabel cheung" nonfiltered="739" processed="728" dbindex="747">
mabel cheung      (november 17 1950) is one of the leading film directors in hong kong. she is famous for working in migration issues of hong kong people, especially before handover 1997, and overseas chinese.

her remarkable masterpieces include the "migration trilogy": illegal immigrant (1985), an autumn's tale (1987) and eight taels of gold (1989). the soong sisters (1997) marks another peak of her filming career. all four films were made in collaboration with writer alex law.

external link.
;










</doc>
<doc id="433856" title="greg pope" nonfiltered="740" processed="729" dbindex="748">
gregory james pope (born 29 august 1960, blackburn) is a politician in the united kingdom. he is labour member of parliament for hyndburn, and was first elected in 1992. pope is a signatory of the henry jackson society. 

he is married to the former catherine fallon, and they have 4 children.

external links.
guardian unlimited politics - ask aristotle: greg pope mp;
theyworkforyou.com - greg pope mp;















</doc>
<doc id="8218826" title="first sacred war" nonfiltered="741" processed="730" dbindex="749">

the first sacred war (595 bc-585 bc) was fought between the amphictyonic league of 
delphi and the city of kirrha. the conflict arose due to kirrha's frequent robbery and mistreatment of pilgrims to delphi and from encroachments upon delphic land. the war resulted in the defeat and destruction of kirrha. the war is notable for the use of chemical warfare at the siege of kirrha, in the form of hellebore being used to poison the city's water supply.

 justifications of war .

in ancient greece, kirrha was a heavily fortified city which controlled access to delphi from the corinthian gulf. kirrha took advantage of its location to rob and mistreat pilgrims to the delphic oracle, to tax delphi, and to steal land from delphi, land considered sacred to apollo. this behavior prompted many of the other greek city-states to form the amphictionic league, a military alliance dedicated to protecting delphi, circa  600 bc. the league consulted the oracle for advice on dealing with kirrha, and the reply was a call for total war. the members of the league vowed to completely destroy kirrha and ravage the surrounding areas. to this they added a curse in the name of apollo: that the soil should bring forth no crops, that the children of the women and livestock should be deformed, and that the entire ethnic group that inhabited the city should be eradicated.

 siege of kirrha .

the leader of the attack was the tyrant cleisthenes of sicyon, who used his powerful navy to blockade the city's port before using an allied amphictionic army to besiege kirrha. what transpired after this is a matter of debate. the earliest, and therefore probably most reliable, account is that of the medical writer thessalos, who in the fifth century bc wrote that the attackers discovered a secret water pipe leading into the city after it was broken by a horse's hoof. an asclepiad named nebros advised the allies to poison the water with hellebore. the hellebore soon rendered the defenders so weak with diarrhea that they were unable to continue resisting the assault. kirrha was captured and the entire population was slaughtered. nebros was an ancestor of hippocrates, so this story has caused many to wonder whether it might not have been guilt over his ancestor's use of poison that drove hippocrates to establish the hippocratic oath.

later historians told different stories. according to frontinus, who wrote in the first century ad, after discovering the pipe, the amphictionic cut it, leading to great thirst within the city. after a while, they restored the pipe, allowing water to flow into the city. the desperate kirrhans immediately began drinking the water, unaware that kleisthenes had poisoned it with hellebore. according to polyaenus, a writer of the second century ad, after the pipe was discovered, the attackers added the hellebore to the spring from which the water came, without ever actually depriving the kirrhans of water. polyaenus also gave credit for the strategy not to kleisthenes but to general eurylochos, who he claimed advised his allies to gather a large amount of hellebore from anticyra, where it was abundant. the stories of frontinus and polyaenus both have the same result as thessalos's tale: the defeat of kirrha.

the last major historian to advance a new story of the siege was pausanias, who was active in the second century ad. in his version of events solon of athens diverted the course of the river pleistos so that it didn't run through kirrha. solon had hoped to thus defeat the kirrhans by thirst, but the enemy was able to get enough water from their wells and rainwater collection. solon then added a great quantity of hellebore to the water of the pleistos and let it flow into kirrha. the poisoning then allowed the allies to destroy the city.

 references .
footnotes.








</doc>
<doc id="5854681" title="1975 wha amateur draft" nonfiltered="742" processed="731" dbindex="750">
the 1975 wha amateur draft was the third draft held by the world hockey association.

selections by round.
below are listed the selections in the 1975 wha amateur draft.



round 1.
1 claude larose - cincinnati stingers

2 bryan maxwell - indianapolis racers

3 don ashby - michigan stags

4 mel bridgman - denver spurs

5 ralph klassen - cleveland crusaders

6 barry dean - edmonton oilers

7 denny mclean - calgary cowboys

8 brad gassoff - winnipeg jets

9 greg vaydik - phoenix roadrunners

10 greg hickey - minnesota fighting saints

11 rick lapointe - toronto toros

12 jamie masters - san diego mariners

13 terry mcdonald - new england whalers

14 pierre mondou - quebec nordiques

15 richard mulhern - houston aeros

see also.
1975 nhl amateur draft;
1975-76 wha season;

references.
 
1975 wha amateur draft on hockeydb.com;







</doc>
<doc id="754356" title="verbal contract" nonfiltered="743" processed="732" dbindex="751">
a verbal contract is any contract which is expressed in words (written or spoken).  

this contrasts with a contract which is implied by actions of the parties. an implied contract can be either implied in fact or implied in law. a contract which is implied in fact is one in which the circumstances imply that parties have reached an agreement even though they have not done so expressly.  for example, by going to a doctor for a physical, a patient agrees that he will pay a fair price for the service. if he refuses to pay after being examined, he has breached a contract implied in fact.

verbal contract is a frequently misused expression.  it is often used by journalists when they mean to say oral contract.  when used in this sense, the term is confusing as well as incorrect, since a written contract is also a verbal one.





</doc>
<doc id="5643698" title="gilburt" nonfiltered="744" processed="733" dbindex="752">
the gilburt was an english automobile manufactured from 1904 to 1905 in kilburn, london.  it was a two or three seater light car with a 6 hp twin-cylinder engine from fafnir and used a tubular chassis and chain drive.

reference.
david burgess wise, the new illustrated encyclopedia of automobiles




</doc>
<doc id="201577" title="ofnr" nonfiltered="745" processed="734" dbindex="753">
ofnr is an abbreviation for optical fiber, nonconductive, riser.  

ofnr is the designation and required marking given by the national fire protection association (nfpa) to interior fiber-optic cables which contain no electrically conductive components, and which are certified for use in riser applications; they are engineered to prevent the spread of fire from floor to floor in a building.  typically they are tested for compliance with ansi/ul 1666-1997, standard test for flame propagation height of electrical and optical-fiber cable installed vertically in shafts.  nfpa nec 2005 art 770.51(b) fpn.  

they are distinct from optical plenum cable, and general purpose optical cable.





</doc>
<doc id="2168355" title="ignoto" nonfiltered="746" processed="735" dbindex="754">


ignoto is the debut album by the post-hardcore punk rock band  and was released in 2005 on fiction/polydor. the album develops the strong sci-fi/post-hardcore sound of the group from their first (mini-) album, all roads to fault.

a striking feature of the album is the cover artwork, which was produced by renowned photographer storm thorgerson, who has also produced artwork for such memorable albums as dark side of the moon by pink floyd and frances the mute by the mars volta. the photograph is of a distressed man sitting in a room lit by a bare lightbulb. the walls are covered in hundreds of light switches (the theme of the rest of the album's artwork), with a girl dressed in red seen to be lying, lifeless, in an adjacent and similarly decorated room. the girl in red makes other appearances in the artwork.

the universal special edition release features a rounded cd case, in the style of the light-switch theme of the album art.

track listing.
"i am connecting flight" - 2:57;
"17" - 3:16;
"titan grip" - 3:06;
"rapt. dept." - 4:12;
"schteeve" - 4:13;
"team radar" - 5:07;
"fivefour" - 4:43;
"yesterday's head" - 4:07;
"empty feat" - 3:40;
"2"-stone - 3:01;
"the general" - 3:19;
"audition" + ("unfinished drawings of cats" bonus track) - 11:22;




</doc>
<doc id="966825" title="9-11 medal" nonfiltered="747" processed="736" dbindex="755">


the 9-11 medal is a special decoration of the u.s. department of transportation which was first created in 2002. the decoration recognizes those civilians and members of the military who performed heroic deeds and valorous accomplishments in the immediate aftermath of the september 11, 2001 attacks on the united states of america.

the 9-11 medal is not a simple service decoration, but rather recognizes individual acts of bravery that resulted in the saving of life or great assistance to the rescue efforts from the september 11th attacks. a separate military decoration, the 9-11 ribbon, is presented to members of the u.s. military for general aide and assistance to the victims of the september 11th attacks.

the 9-11 medal is a one time decoration and is authorized for wear by both civilians and members of the u.s military.





</doc>
<doc id="1897014" title="mesoamerican pyramids" nonfiltered="748" processed="737" dbindex="756">

mesoamerican pyramids, pyramid-shaped structures,  are an important part of ancient mesoamerican architecture. these structures were  usually step pyramids with temples on top   more akin to the ziggurats of mesopotamia than to the pyramids of ancient egypt. the mesoamerican region's largest pyramid by volume   indeed, the largest in the world by volume   is the great pyramid of cholula, in the mexican state  of puebla.


aztecs.

the aztecs, a people with a rich mythology and cultural heritage, dominated central mexico in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries. their capital was tenochtitlan on the shore of lake texcoco   the site of modern-day mexico city. they were linguistically related to the preceding cultures in the basin of mexico such as  the aztecs  and the culture of teotihuacan whose building styles they adopted and adapted.
templo mayor;
malinalco;



maya.
the maya are a people of southern mexico and northern central america (guatemala, belize, western honduras, and el salvador) with some 3,000 years of history.  archaeological evidence shows the maya started to build ceremonial architecture approximately 3,000 years ago. the earliest monuments consisted of simple burial mounds, the precursors to the spectacular stepped pyramids from the terminal pre-classic period and beyond.  these pyramids relied on intricate carved stone in order to create a stair-stepped design. many of these structures featured a top platform upon which a smaller dedicatory building was constructed, associated with a particular maya deity. maya pyramid-like structures were also erected to serve as a place of interment for powerful rulers. maya pyramidic structures occur in a great variety of forms and functions, bounded by regional and period differences.
altun ha;
calakmul;
caracol;
copan;
chichen itza;
el mirador;
palenque;
tikal;
uxmal;

tarascans.
the tarascan state was a precolumbian culture located in the modern day mexican state of michoac\e1n.  the region is currently inhabited by the modern descendents of the p'urh\e9pecha. tarascan architecture is noted for "t"-shaped step pyramids known as y\e1catas.
tzintzuntzan;



teotihuacanos.
the teotihuacano civilisation, which flourished from around 300 bce to 500 ce, at its greatest extent included most of mesoamerica. teotihuacano culture collapsed around 550 and was followed by several large citystates such as xochicalco (whose inhabitants were probably of matlatzinca ethnicity), cholula (whose inhabitants were probably oto-manguean) and later the the ceremonial site of tula (which has traditionally beeen claimed to have been built by toltecs but which now is thought to have been founded by the huastec culture).
teotihuacan;
xochicalco;
tula;



totonacs.
the totonac people controlled a sizeable portion of the gulf coast from the 1st century through to the 13th. the best known totonaca pyramid, in their capital el taj\edn, is smaller than those of their neighbours and successors but more intricate. although taj\edn has been regarded as a totonac site - mostly because it has had totonac inhabitants in historic times some scholars now beelieve that it was built originally by huastecs and lateer conquered by the totonacs.
el taj\edn;

zapotecs.
the zapotecas were one of the earliest mesoamerican cultures and held sway over the oaxaca valley from 900 bc to about ad 1300.
monte alb\e1n;
mitla;

others.
the followng sites are from northern mesoamerica, built by cultures whose ethnic affiliations are unknown:


altavista.
this astronomical and ceremonial center was the product of the chalchihuite culture. its occupation and development had a period of approximately 800 years (200-1000 a.c.). this zone is considered an important archaeological center because of the astonishing, accurate functions of the edifications. the ones that stand out the most are: the moon plaza, the votive pyramid, the ladder of gamio and the labyrinth. in the labyrinth you can appreciate with precision and accuracy, the respective equinoxes and the seasons.

la quemada.
you can appreciate the great quantity of buildings constructed above artificial terraces in the slopes of a hill. the materials used here include stone slab and clay. the most important structures are: the hall of columns, the ball game, the votive pyramid, and the palace and the barrack. in the most elevated part of the hill is the fortress. this is composed of a small pyramid and a platform, encircled by a wall thats more than 800 mts. long and up to six feet high. la quemada was occupied from 800 to 1200 a.d. their founders and occupants have not been identified with certitude.

 see also .
bosnian pyramids;
chinese pyramids;
egyptian pyramids;
french pyramids;
nubian pyramids;
south american pyramids;
ukrainian pyramids;
mound;
cahokia;

notes.

external links.

pyramidplan   instructions for building a scale-model aztec temple;











</doc>
<doc id="9156069" title="georgia state route 290" nonfiltered="749" processed="738" dbindex="757">

state route 290 was a north-south state route located in quitman county in the southwestern part of the u.s. state of georgia. the route connected the town of morris with u.s. route 82/state route 50. the route was decommissioned in 1981..

reference.







</doc>
<doc id="6167036" title="john fluevog" nonfiltered="750" processed="739" dbindex="758">
john fluevog is a canadian shoe designer. his shoes are noted for their progressive, art deco inspired styles. his shoes often include messages -- for instance, "these shoes repel dirt, oil and satan" -- engraved into the soles. 

there are fluevog stores located in canada, the united states, and australia.  

external link. 
 fluevog shoes;







</doc>
<doc id="7900941" title="ko\a8arisk\e1" nonfiltered="751" processed="740" dbindex="759">


ko\a8arisk\e1 is a village and municipality in myjava district in the tren \edn region of north-western slovakia.

history.
in historical records the village was first mentioned in 1786. 

geography.
the municipality lies at an altitude of 249 metres and covers an area of 11.531 km\b2. it has a population of about 403 people.
 
external links.
http://www.statistics.sk/mosmis/eng/run.html;










</doc>
<doc id="551623" title="william john bowser" nonfiltered="752" processed="741" dbindex="760">
william john bowser (rexton, new brunswick december 3, 1867-october 25, 1933 vancouver) was a politician in british columbia, canada. he moved to vancouver to practice law in 1891, and was first elected to the provincial legislature in the 1903 election as a conservative. 

bowser served as attorney-general in the cabinet of sir richard mcbride from 1907 until 1915, when he succeeded mcbride as premier.

the conservative party was deeply divided and unpopular and the change in leadership did not improve matters. accusations of corruption and "machine politics" were rife. the conservatives also neglected to address popular demands for women's suffrage and prohibition. bowser's government was defeated in the 1916 election, losing to liberal leader harlan carey brewster, who two years later was succeeded by the more memorable john oliver.  bowser continued as leader of the opposition until he lost his seat in the 1924 election. 

he returned to politics in the 1933 election to lead a non-partisan group of candidates, but died during the election campaign.

a river, a lake and the small community of bowser on vancouver island, between parksville and the comox valley, are named for bowser.

sources: the canadian encyclopedia and the dictionary of canadian biography;













</doc>
<doc id="8516762" title="suppo i" nonfiltered="753" processed="742" dbindex="761">
suppo i (or suppone; died 5 march 824) was a frankish nobleman who held lands in the regnum italicum in the early ninth century. 

in 817, he was made count of brescia, parma, piacenza, modena, and bergamo. he was also made a missus dominicus, along with the brescian bishop ratald, for italy. in 818, he was instrumental in putting down the rebellion of bernard against the emperor, louis the pious. in 822, after the abdication and death of duke winiges, suppo was created duke of spoleto by the grateful emperor and he passed brescia to his son mauring. suppo's death was recorded by einhard and spoleto went to adelard, who died within five months, leavin the duchy to mauring. 

suppo probably had a lombard wife, for his second son was named adelchis. 

sources.
wickham, chris. early medieval italy: central power and local society 400-1000. macmillan press: 1981. ;








</doc>
<doc id="880253" title="bylot island" nonfiltered="754" processed="743" dbindex="762">



bylot island lies off the northern end of baffin island in nunavut territory, canada. at 4,273 sq mi (11,067 km\b2) it is ranked 71st largest island in the world and canada's 17th largest island. there are no permanent settlements on the island, inuit from pond inlet and elsewhere regularly travel to the island.

almost all of the island is within the sirmilik national park, harbouring large populations of thick-billed murres, black-legged kittiwakes and greater snow geese.

the island is named for the arctic explorer robert bylot.

further reading.
katharine scherman (1956). spring on an arctic island. travel literature of a research trip to bylot island in 1954.















</doc>
<doc id="6705600" title="vhtp" nonfiltered="755" processed="744" dbindex="763">
 

the virginia high-tech partnership (vhtp) is an educational consortium that links students from virginia's five historically black colleges and universities with corporations, high-tech firms and government agencies for internships, summer positions and career opportunities.

history.
in january 1998, virginia governor mark r. warner created the vhtp in response to virginia's increasing need for skilled high-tech workers.

participation.
the following universitites participate in the partnership:

hampton university;
norfolk state university;
saint paul's college;
virginia state university;
virginia union university ;

more than 3,000 students in these schools major in technology, mathematics and science degree programs.

external links.
 official website;
 vhtp annual job fairs;




</doc>
<doc id="5815162" title="gabriela mas?owska" nonfiltered="756" processed="745" dbindex="764">

gabriela mas owska (born june 27, 1950 in batorz) is a polish politician. she was elected to sejm on september 25, 2005 getting 11977 votes in 6 lublin district, candidating from liga polskich rodzin list.

she was also a member of sejm 2001-2005.

see also.
members of polish sejm 2005-2009;

external links.
gabriela mas owska - parliamentary page - includes declarations of interest, voting record, and transcripts of speeches.











</doc>
<doc id="3080986" title="the apprentice (book)" nonfiltered="757" processed="746" dbindex="765">


the apprentice is a novel written by lewis libby, former chief of staff to u.s. vice president dick cheney, and first published in 1996. it is set in northern japan in winter 1903, and centers on a group of travelers stranded at a remote inn due to a smallpox epidemic.

libby supposedly spent more than 20 years working on the book and finished it in 1996. despite his high office, it attracted scant attention when initially published. however, following his indictment in october 2005, for perjury, conspiracy, and obstruction of justice in special prosecutor patrick fitzgerald's investigation of the plame affair, the novel gained new attention when it was discussed in a new yorker magazine "talk of the town" column.

the writer, lauren collins, reported that the novel was rife with sexual deviance of the kind typically denounced by conservatives. it brimmed with homoeroticism, included scenes of incest, and featured descriptions of many different bodily fluids. copies of the book sold for high amounts after collins' article was published.

while the response to the novel included much amusement, some readers found a few passages particularly disturbing. one in particular combined bestiality, pedophilia, prostitution, and biastophilia in just two sentences:


at age ten the madam put the child in a cage with a bear trained to couple with young girls so the girls would be frigid and not fall in love with their patrons. they fed her through the bars and aroused the bear with a stick when it seemed to lose interest. groups of men paid to watch.


another passage introduces necrophilia, as three hunters copulate with two freshly killed deer.

 external links .

 the talk of the town - a new yorker article.










</doc>
<doc id="5816378" title="gerolakkos" nonfiltered="758" processed="747" dbindex="766">



gerolakkos is a village near nicosia, the capital of cyprus. it was a nearly exclusively greek cypriot and relatively large village, and it was the site of intensive fighting during the turkish invasion in 1974. gerolakkos is immediately to the north of the ceasefire line, later known as the green line separating north and south cyprus, in the areas occupied by the turkish military.






</doc>
<doc id="1663569" title="austin scott" nonfiltered="759" processed="748" dbindex="767">


frank austin scott or austin scott (august 10, 1848   15 august, 1922) was the tenth president of rutgers college (now rutgers university) serving from 1891 to 1906.

biography.
austin scott was born in toledo, ohio on august 10, 1848, to jeremiah austin scott and sarah remey. his birth name was frank austin scott, but eventually dropped the use of his first name. 

austin scott received a baccalaureate degree from yale college in 1869 and earned a master of arts (m.a.) from the university of michigan in 1870.  

later he studied at the universit\e4t berlin, and the universit\e4t leipzig receiving a doctor of philosophy (ph.d.) from leipzig in 1873.  while in germany, he assisted the historian george bancroft, then american minister to germany, in preparing the tenth volume of history of the united states. he was also charged with the responsibility of carrying dispatches to washington, dc with the decisions of kaiser wilhelm of germany. on his return to the united states, scott was a german instructor at the university of michigan from 1873 to 1875, and then, for seven years, an associate in history at johns hopkins university. during this period he continued as assistant to bancroft, assembling and arranging historical material for his history of the constitution of the united states. 

in 1882, scott married anna prentiss stearns and they had seven children.

in 1883, scott was appointed to the faculty of rutgers college as a professor of history, political economy, and constitutional law, and was elected to succeed merrill edward gates in 1891.  

during his tenure, rutgers received a generous gift from robert francis ballantine (1836-1905), a wealthy brewer from newark, new jersey and college trustee, to construct a gymnasium on the campus. a private gift from mrs. ralph voorhees provided funds for the construction of a library to replace the overcrowded one established in the kirkpatrick chapel in 1873.  by 1906, scott resigned as president and returned to teaching political science, constitutional law, international law and civics. for sixteen years he carried on his teaching and provided administrative assistance to his successor, william h. s. demarest. 

he served as the mayor of new brunswick from 1912 to 1915. he died in granville, massachusetts in 1922 at his summer home. his widow died on january 23, 1933.

external links.
 rutgers biography;
 rutgers archive biography;

see also.
list of mayors of new brunswick, new jersey;













</doc>
<doc id="5467" title="foreign relations of cape verde" nonfiltered="760" processed="749" dbindex="769">

cape verde follows a policy of nonalignment and seeks cooperative relations with all friendly states. angola, brazil, the people's republic of china, cuba, france, germany, portugal, senegal, russia, and the united states maintain embassies in praia.

cape verde is actively interested in foreign affairs, especially in africa. it has bilateral relations with some lusophone nations and holds membership in a number of international organizations. it also participates in most international conferences on economic and political issues.

disputes - international:
none

illicit drugs:
used as a transshipment point for illicit drugs moving from latin america and africa destined for western europe







</doc>
<doc id="958145" title="v.i.p. records" nonfiltered="761" processed="750" dbindex="770">


v.i.p. records was a daughter record label of motown records. it was active from 1964 until 1972.

one artist to release singles on this label was the white soul singer chris clark who sang songs such as 'do right baby do right', which are still popular amongst fans of 'northern soul'- 

 see also .
 list of record labels;







</doc>
<doc id="5240587" title="list of concert venues" nonfiltered="762" processed="751" dbindex="771">
very incomplete listing of concert venues.


list of london venues;
list of u.s. concert venues;



</doc>
<doc id="3868205" title="maria doyle kennedy" nonfiltered="763" processed="752" dbindex="772">
maria doyle (born 1964) is an irish-born actress (known as maria doyle kennedy since her 1992 marriage to kieran kennedy) who appeared in irish movies such as the commitments, about a musical group, which also starred bronagh gallagher and angeline ball; and the general, with brendan gleeson about the notorious irish gangster martin cahill, who was killed by the ira.

she also appeared in gregory's two girls.


trivia.
 sang with the irish band hothouse flowers in their early years;


see also.
 list of people on stamps of ireland;

external links.
;









</doc>
<doc id="2615938" title="exfiltration" nonfiltered="764" processed="753" dbindex="773">
exfiltration is military jargon for exiting an area (usually behind enemy lines or in enemy territory).  exfiltration is the opposite of infiltration. 

the removal of personnel or units from area under enemy control.  the removal of personnel or units from areas under enemy control by stealth, deception, surprise, or clandestine means.



exfiltration is also a term used by civil engineers. it is method for managing storm water runoff.



</doc>
<doc id="497949" title="shimousa province" nonfiltered="765" processed="754" dbindex="774">

shimousa province (    -no kuni) was a province of japan located in and around the northern part of modern chiba prefecture on the island of honsh . together with kazusa, it was also called s sh .

shimousa bordered on hitachi, kazusa, kozuke, musashi and shimotsuke provinces. 

the ancient provincial capital was near modern ichikawa, although in feudal times sakura was a more important center. shimousa passed through various hands, and at times all or portions of it were ruled by stronger daimyo from musashi or kazusa.

history.

during the early tokugawa era, shimousa consisted of these fiefs:

kurihara: ruled by naruse masanari, 34,000 koku;
koga: ruled by matsudaira (toda) yasunaga, 20,000 koku;
sekiyado: ruled by matsudaira (hisamatsu) yasumoto, 40,000 koku;
yamazaki: ruled by okabe nagamori, 12,000 koku;
yamakawa: (established in 1609) ruled by matsudaira (hisamatsu) sadatsuna, 15,000 koku;
ino: ruled by honda narishige, 3000 koku (abolished in 1613);
iwatomi: ruled by h j  ujikatsu, 10,000 koku (abolished in 1613);
sakura: kept changing hands and size; in 1610, ruled by doi toshikatsu, 32,400 koku (with another 12,600 koku added in 1612, and further increases in subsequent periods);
iida: (established 1608, abolished 1613), ruled by aoyama narishige, 10,000 koku;
omigawa: from 1602 to 1610, ruled by doi toshikatsu, 10,000 koku; in 1612, ruled by and  shigenobu, 16,600 koku;
moriya: ruled by toki sadayoshi, 10,000 koku;

 external links .
website in japanese about the province;
















</doc>
<doc id="5361201" title="tsukubamirai, ibaraki" nonfiltered="767" processed="755" dbindex="776">
tsukubamirai (japanese:        ; -shi) is a city located in ibaraki, japan.  the city was formed on march 27, 2006 from the merger of the town of ina and the neighboring village of yawara.

as of may 1, 2006 population data, the city has an estimated population of 41,384 and the density of 523 persons per km\b2. the total area is 79.14 km\b2.

 external links .
official website of tsukubamirai in japanese;








</doc>
<doc id="8395377" title="villa grove, colorado" nonfiltered="768" processed="756" dbindex="777">
villa grove is an unincorporated town and a u.s. post office located in saguache county, colorado, united states.  the villa grove post office has the zip code 81155.

history.
the town of garibaldi was established by the denver & rio grande railroad in 1870.  the town served as the southern terminus of the rio grande's narrow-gauge poncha pass line from 1870 to 1890.  the town was named for italian revolutionary giuseppe garibaldi.  the garibaldi post office opened on june 13, 1870.  the town's name was changed to the less political villa grove on january 19, 1872.  the spelling of the town's name was changed to villagrove on october 12, 1894, and back to villa grove on july 1, 1950.

geography.
villa grove is located at  (38.248157,-105.948887).

external links.


references.








</doc>
<doc id="941618" title="plymouth sound fm" nonfiltered="769" processed="757" dbindex="779">


plymouth sound is an independent local radio station broadcasting to plymouth in devon, united kingdom. it is owned by gcap media. the name is a pun on the popular meaning of sound (in the audio sense) and the bay of plymouth sound between penlee point and wembury point in devon.

in november 2005 it was announced that gcap's local radio stations in the south west, including plymouth sound, were to be sold as they were outside of the company's primary target area . four months later gcap decided that the sale would not go ahead, essentially because the offers made fell short of their expectations .

external links.
official site;
subjective historial page;







</doc>
<doc id="2992230" title="mike newlin" nonfiltered="770" processed="758" dbindex="780">
michael f. newlin (born january 2, 1949 in portland, oregon) is a former nba basketball player.  a feisty 6'4" guard from the university of utah, he played 11 professional seasons (1971-1982), spending time with the houston rockets, new jersey nets, and new york knicks.  he had his finest season in 1980-1981, when he averaged 21.4 points per game for the nets, and he retired in 1982 with 12,507 career points.

newlin currently lives in sugar land, texas.

external links. 
 career stats;
 clutchfans.net profile - houston rocket fan site;
 where is he now?;













</doc>
<doc id="1071435" title="unio trium nationum" nonfiltered="771" processed="759" dbindex="781">
unio trium nationum (latin for "union of the three nations"; also known as fraterna unio - "brotherly union") was a pact of mutual aid formed in 1438 by three estates of transylvania: the (largely hungarian) nobility, the saxon (ie german) burghers, and the szeklers (who had a special status within the kingdom of hungary).

the union was formed after the suppression of the bob\e2lna revolt of 1437 by the estates. the revolt was triggered by an attempt by the bishop of transylvania to collect unpaid taxes. although the revolt was led by a hungarian petty noble - anthony budai nagy - it was a coalition of various elements of transylvanian society: both hungarian and romanian serfs and the burghers of cluj (kolozsv\e1r, klausenburg). they declared themselves as the estate of hungarians and romanians (universitas hungarorum et valachorum).  

the union ensured that the serfs continued to be excluded from the political and social life of transylvania, although they made up the majority of the population. the position of the transylvanian romanians, the vast majority of whom were serfs, was particularly critical, since the unio trium nationum tacitly excluded the former estate of romanians (universitas valachorum) from the union, hence from every form of political and social participation. they were only considered a "tolerated" nation, this status being kept until after world war i.









</doc>
<doc id="3287907" title="betty rollin" nonfiltered="773" processed="760" dbindex="783">
betty rollin (b.january 3 1936 in new york city), is a former nbc news correspondent who wrote about her struggle with cancer in her most famous book, first, you cry.

betty rollin was first diagnosed with breast cancer in 1975, and again in 1984, each time losing a breast to the disease. betty's battle with cancer was followed and reported on for public awareness and to give encouragement to others facing this increasingly common disease. however, although betty lost both of her breasts to cancer, and "death is never far" from her mind, she appears to be in complete remission.

at around the same time, her mother, ida, was diagnosed with terminal ovarian cancer. betty helped her mother, ida, end her life in 1983. one of betty's friends told her of a doctor in europe who supported voluntary euthanasia, whom she contacted and was able to obtain the needed pills. these actions aroused the ire of many conservatives as well as  the orthodoxly religious, who view(ed) them as a form of eugenics.

betty rollin is the author of 5 other books, including last wish. she and her husband, dr. harold edwards, a mathematician, live in manhattan (ny). they have no children.

 books .
 first your cry (1976) isbn 0-06-095630-5;
 last wish (1985) isbn 1-891620-01-0;
 am i getting paid for this?: a romance about work  (1986) isbn 0-451-14442-2;

external links.
http://www.bettyrollin.com/;
 last wish (tv movie);







</doc>
<doc id="4665425" title="braggadocio, missouri" nonfiltered="774" processed="761" dbindex="784">
braggadocio is an unincorporated community in pemiscot county, missouri.  it is located eight miles west of caruthersville.  the community was founded in 1847 and according to ramsay, was named for the vainglorious knight and horse thief sir braggadoccio, in edmund spencer's the faerie queen





</doc>
<doc id="7192328" title="atomic mass (band)" nonfiltered="775" processed="762" dbindex="785">
atomic mass is the original name of sheffield rock music band def leppard. soon after employing joe elliot as lead singer the band changed their name to deaf leopard before settling on the more led zeppelin-esqe spelling of def leppard.






</doc>
<doc id="2644432" title="jo-ann garbutt" nonfiltered="776" processed="763" dbindex="786">
 
jo-ann garbutt was born and raised in south africa. during her years of study at the stellenbosch art center, the young artist emerged as one of the most promising artists among her peers. professors would praise her bold approach to the use of colour and the originality of her compositions that defined her art. oil on canvas surfaced as her favourite medium whereas her early sketches and paintings were in charcoal, coloured pencil and acrylic paint. her early work shows a realistic approach to subject matter, while later work seems more inspired by a combination of dutch style baroque boldness and degas style impressionism. 

during her travels to europe and north america, she continued to refine her style and training. examples of her work can be viewed at her website and at the devon gallery, vancouver.

jo-ann also recently published her first poem album called soul prints.







</doc>
<doc id="4217297" title="electrical sensitivity" nonfiltered="777" processed="764" dbindex="787">
electrical sensitivity (es), sometimes also called electrosensitivity or electromagnetic hypersensitivity (ehs), is a condition in which a person reports physical and / or psychological symptoms which appear to be aggravated by electric or magnetic fields or other electromagnetic waves at exposure levels tolerated by the general public.  it is a matter of ongoing controversy as to whether there is a direct physical link between emf exposure and the symptoms experienced by sufferers, as no specific test currently exists. at present the majority of mainstream scientific opinion does not consider there to be robust evidence of such a link, but many sufferers and their support groups are firmly convinced of a causal relationship with emf's. a recent report by the uk health protection agency (irvine 2005) concluded that es needs to be considered in ways other than its etiology.

initial reports of es in the medical literature focused on individuals who reported symptoms following work with visual display units. however, many other electrical devices have also been reported as causing symptoms and recent surveys of es sufferers have found that base stations for mobile and cordless phones, overhead power lines, electrical transformers and mobile phone handsets are now the most commonly cited sources of ill health (r\f6\f6sli et al, 2004).

symptoms and severity.

the health effects reported by electrosensitivity sufferers tend to be subjective, non-specific symptoms. as yet, no consistent evidence has been found of any objective signs of disease in this group (irvine, 2005). initial swedish and nordic reports were mainly of facial skin effects attributed to extensive use of visual display units such as dry eyes and burning skin (irvine 2005). however, recently in europe as a whole and in the usa, more general and severe symptoms have been reported by a smaller group of people, especially neurological symptoms such as headache, fatigue and tinnitus, and skin symptoms throughout the body.  irvine (2005) noted the overlap in many sufferers with other conditions regarded as fss (functional somatic syndromes, barsky & borus 1999) / iei (idiopathic environmental intolerance, kroenke & swindle 2000); these include cfs, mcs, hypersensitivity or autoimmune disease. figures from levallois (2002) and carlsson et al (2005) both show over 50% of es sufferers also reporting mcs or similar conditions. other authors have noted that people reporting severe es generally have these conditions or have had high levels of use of electrical equipment such as mobile phones. (rea 1991, grant 1997, smith 1997). 

different sufferers report different levels of susceptibility to electric fields, magnetic fields and various frequencies of electromagnetic waves (including fluorescent and low-energy lights, and microwaves from mobile and cordless/portable phones). (philips 2003).  other surveys of es sufferers have not been able to find any consistent pattern to these symptoms (hillert et al, 2002; r\f6\f6sli et al, 2004). instead symptoms reflecting almost every part of the body have been attributed to emf exposure.

a minority of people who experience es are severely affected by it. for instance, one survey has estimated that approximately 10% of es sufferers in sweden are on sick leave or have taken early retirement or a disability pension, compared to 5% of the general population (hillert et al, 2002), while a second survey has reported that of 3046 people who experienced 'annoyance' from electrical equipment, 340 (11%) reported 'much' annoyance (carlsson et al, 2005). for those who are severely affected, es can have a significant impact on their quality of life, causing physical, mental and social impairment and psychological distress (r\f6\f6sli et al, 2004).

prevalence.

a questionnaire survey of 2,072 people in california found that the prevalence of es within the sample group was 3.24% (95% ci 2.8 3.68%), with es being defined as "being allergic or very sensitive to getting near electrical appliances, computers, or power lines" (levallois 2002, response rate 58.3%). a similar questionnaire survey from the same year in stockholm county (sweden), found a 1.5% prevalence of es amongst the sample group, with es being defined as "hypersensitivity or allergy to electric or magnetic fields" (hillert 2002, response rate 73%). a more recent survey of prevalence of 'annoyance' relating to visual display units, fluorescent tube lighting and other electrical equipment among the general swedish population reported the prevalence of 'much annoyance' relating to these devices to be 0.8%, 1.4% and 0.4% respectively (carlsson et al, 2005).

an expert group from the european commission also attempted to estimate the extent of es within eu countries (bergqvist et al, 1997). the group reported that estimates of the total number of cases differed substantially between countries as well as between the answering groups, with self aid group (sag) estimates consistently around ten times higher than those of centres of occupational medicine (com). estimates ranged from less than a few cases per million of the population (com estimates from uk, italy and france) to a few tenths of a percent of the population (sag estimates in denmark, ireland and sweden). the group concluded that the differences in prevalence were at least partly due to the differences in available information and media attention around es that exist in different countries. similar views have been expressed by other commentators (irvine 2005, section 4.6).

role of electromagnetic fields in causing es.

by definition, individuals who report es believe that emf from common electrical devices can trigger or exacerbate their symptoms. however, as these fields tend to be much weaker than the exposure levels generally accepted to cause physiological effects, the role that emf plays in the etiology of the condition has been the topic of much controversy: sufferers and their support groups are firmly convinced of a causal relationship with emf's, whereas at present the majority of mainstream scientific opinion does not consider there to be robust evidence of such a link. some professionals consider es to be a real physical condition for which the cause is unclear; others consider it to be a psychosomatic illness.

mainstream scientific opinion (as reported by irvine 2005) suggests that so far no there is no robust evidence that such a direct connection actually exists. some sufferers and support groups argue that the situation has become politicised to the extent that the outcomes of studies may have been influenced by the widespread implications that acceptance of such a connection would have on future policy .

a systematic review was published in 2005 which looked at the results of 31 experiments testing the role of emf in causing es. each of these experiments exposed people who reported es to genuine and sham electromagnetic fields under single- or double-blind conditions (rubin et al, 2005). the review concluded that "the symptoms described by 'electromagnetic hypersensitivity' sufferers can be severe and are sometimes disabling. however, it has proved difficult to show under blind conditions that exposure to emf can trigger these symptoms. this suggests that 'electromagnetic hypersensitivity' is unrelated to the presence of emf, although more research into this phenomenon is required." since then, at least three further double-blind experiments have been published (regel et al., 2006; rubin et al., 2006; wilen et al., 2006), each of which has suggested that people who report electrosensitivity are unable to detect the presence of emfs and are as likely to report ill health following a fake or nocebo exposure as following exposure to genuine emf. however, only people with "moderate" and not "severe" es may have been tested; for rubin et al, two persons who suffered symptoms merely from the background environment in the room before beginning testing were excluded from the study .

given this evidence, the world health organisation has concluded that "there is no scientific basis to link ehs symptoms to emf exposure" (who fact sheet number 296). disagreement over this continues, however, as exemplified by the freiburger appeal; a petition by medical doctors stating that "we can see a clear temporal and spatial exposure between the appearance of  disease and exposure to pulsed high-frequency microwave radiation" (freiburger appeal, 2002). over 2,000 doctors in the eu have now signed this appeal.

treatment.

no reliable treatment for es is yet known, mainly because the causes of the condition remain unproven. avoidance, as far as possible, is the main strategy practised by those who claim to suffer from severe es; this presents major practical difficulties in modern society. other methods often used by sufferers include screening/shielding (such as earthed/grounded metallic netting or paints), electrical filters and complementary and alternative therapy. 

a 2006 systematic review identified nine clinical trials testing different treatments for es (rubin et al, 2006): four studies tested cognitive behavioural therapy, two tested visual display unit filters, one tested a device emitting 'shielding' emf, one tested acupuncture and one tested daily intake of tablets containing vitamin c, vitamin e and selenium. the authors of the review concluded that "the evidence base concerning treatment options for es is limited and more research is needed before any definitive clinical recommendations can be made. however, the best evidence currently available suggests that cognitive behavioural therapy is effective for patients who report being hypersensitive to weak emfs."

see also.
 electromagnetic radiation hazard;
 mobile phone radiation and health;
 wireless electronic devices and health;

references.

 r\f6\f6sli m, moser m, baldinini y, meier m and braun-fahrl\e4nder c. symptoms of ill health ascribed to electromagnetic field exposure - a questionnaire survey. international journal of hygiene and environmental health 2004;207:141-150.
 irvine, n (2005). "definition, epidemiology and management of electrical sensitivity".  report for the radiation protection division of the uk health protection agency, hpa-rpd-010.
 hillert l, berglind n, arnetz bb and bellander t. prevalence of self-reported hypersensitivity to electric or magnetic fields in a population-based questionnaire survey, international journal of hygiene and environmental health 2002;205:353-60;
 carlsson f, karlson b, \d8rb\e6k p, \d6sterberg k and \d6stergren p-o. prevalence of annoyance attributed to electrical equipment and smells in a swedish population, and relationship with subjective health and daily functioning. public health 2005;119:568-577.
 levallois p, neutra r, lee g and hristova l. study of self-reported hypersensitivity to electromagnetic fields in california. environmental health perspectives 2002;110(suppl 4):619-623;
 bergqvist u, vogel e, aringer l, cunningham j, gobba f, leitgeb n, miro l, neubauer g, ruppe i, vecchia p and wadman c. "possible health implications of subjective symptoms and electromagnetic fields. a report prepared by a european group of experts for the european commission, dg v." arbete och halsa 1997:19.
 rubin gj, das munshi j and wessely s. electromagnetic hypersensitivity: a systematic review of provocation studies. psychosomatic medicine;67:224-232.
 wilen j, johansson a, kalezic n, lyskov e, sandstrom m. psychophysiological tests and provocation of subjects with mobile phone related symptoms. bioelectromagnetics 2006;23:204-14.
 regel sj, negovetic s, roosli m, berdinas v, schuderer j, huss a et al. umts base station-like exposure, well being and cognitive performance. environmental health perspectives 2006;114:1270-5.
 rubin gj, hahn g, everitt bs, cleare aj & wessely s. are some people sensitive to mobile phone signals? within-participants, double-blind, randomised provocation study. british medical journal 2006;332:886-889.  responses:  ;
 rea, w et al (1991). electromagnetic field sensitivity, journal of bioelectricity 1991;10:241-256;
 hillert, l et al (2002). prevalence of self-reported hypersensitivity to electric or magnetic fields in a population-based questionnaire survey, international journal of hygiene and environmental health 2002;205:353-60;
 grant, lucinda (1997). "electrical sensitivity as an emerging illness". townsend letter to doctors and patients.
 philips, alasdair and jean (2003).  electrical hypersensitivity (es) - a modern illness.  available from emfields ;
 barsky, a and borus jf (1999) functional somatic syndromes, annals of internal medicine 1999;130:910-921;
 kroenke, k and swindle r (2000) cognitive behavioral therapy for somatization and symptom syndromes: a critical review of controlled clinical trials, psychotherapy and psychosomatics 2000;69:205-15;
 katajainen, jyrki, and bengt knave, eds. (1995). "electromagnetic hypersensitivity". danish association for the electromagnetically hypersensitive, copenhagen, denmark.
 grant, lucinda (1995). the electrical sensitivity handbook: how electromagnetic fields (emfs) are making people sick, weldon publishers, arizona. isbn 978-0-9635407-2-0;
 world health organisation (who) factsheet no. 296 on electromagnetic hypersensitivity (2005): see ;
 freiburger appeal (2002): see  (pdf);
 rubin gj, das munshi j and wessely s. a systematic review of treatments for electromagnetic hypersensitivity. psychotherapy and psychosomatics 2006:75;12-18.  ;


external links.
electrosensitivity.org   information, advice & awareness of electrical sensitivity;
feb   swedish organisation for the electrically sensitive;
electrosensitivity uk   british organisation for electrosensitive people;
overcoming electrical sensitivity   one man s experience of electrical sensitivity and how he freed himself from it;






</doc>
<doc id="4528435" title="ya basta association" nonfiltered="778" processed="765" dbindex="788">
the ya basta association was a loose network of italian anti-capitalist and pro-immigrants rights organizations and groups, fueled by the italian social center movement, active between 1994 and 2001, and known for the "authorship" of the tute bianche, and later disobbedienti phenomena.

formed as a result of the "eros effect" of the zapatista uprising in chiapas in 1994, the ya basta association is sometimes confused with its corresponding tactical project, the tute bianche. however these two projects are distinct in that while the ya basta association is an over-arching project involving many facets, including the utilization of the "white overall" tactic, the tute bianche was a broader tactic involving, at the time of genoa 2001, many participants unconnected with the italian association.

see also.
 \a1ya basta!;

external links.
"tute bianche: the practical side of myth making" by wu ming 1 (roberto bui);



</doc>
<doc id="555971" title="saji, tottori" nonfiltered="779" processed="766" dbindex="789">
saji (   ; -son) is a village located in yazu district, tottori, japan.

as of 2003, the village has an estimated population of 2,689 and a density of 33.66 persons per km . the total area is 79.89 km .

external link.
official town website (in japanese);




</doc>
<doc id="607564" title="lutterade" nonfiltered="780" processed="767" dbindex="790">
lutterade is a district of geleen and later sittard-geleen (a municipality in the southeastern netherlands, in the province of limburg).
lutterade has its own train station named geleen lutterade.

external link.
 station geleen lutterade;



</doc>
<doc id="4788641" title="genesis music" nonfiltered="781" processed="768" dbindex="791">
 


genesis music records

blue revolution
matt yurry  -  vocals
max ray leon  -  bass
roy nelson - guitars
ryan abraham  -  drums
d'jake  -  dj

linkin park
chester bennington  -  vocals
mike shinoda  -  vocals, keyboard, samplings, guitars
brad delson  -  guitars
phoenix  -  bass
joe hahn  -  dj, samplings
rob bourdon  -  drums

d.n.animation
marcus anderson  -  vocals
vince tammy  -  vocals
dj alpha  -  dj, samplings

limp bizkit
fred durst - vocals 
wes borland - guitars  
sam rivers - bass
john otto - drums
dj lethal - dj

adema
bobby reeves - vocals 
dave deroo - bass
tim fluckey - guitars
kris kohls - drums

empire/union
ray santlain  -  vocals, keyboard
mark ruphos  -  guitars
len davis  -  guitars
carl eric  -  bass
louis samson  -  drums

ego file
theo lee  -  mc
fredrick  -  mc  

bannai kole  -  mc

quanna son  -  singer

bleed
gary olli  -  vocals, guitars
wilfred wilson  -  bass
kevin daniell  -  drums

walter neon  -  singer

noisey broods
sunny lee  -  vocals, guitars
john bailey  -  guitars
darle riv  -  guitars
michael roberts  -  bass
sam charles  -  drums, precussions
victor manny  -  keyboard, samplings
f10 - keyboards
randy young - vocals
greg hannah - vocals 

eyes closed
bark louis  -  vocals
greg danielle  -  vocals

star devil  -  singer

the exile
james garrison  -  vocals
kyle prestley - guitars
cam tenel  -  bass
robert castle  -  drums

</doc>
<doc id="107380" title="wallace, california" nonfiltered="782" processed="769" dbindex="792">
wallace is a census-designated place (cdp) at the far west edge of calaveras county, california, united states on california state highway 12. the population was 220 at the 2000 census.

the town's name.

on the 1883 map of the town site is the name of the surveyor, john herbert wallace. it has been widely assumed that he is the one the town is named after. however, according to historian sal manna in the july 2006 issue of las calaveras, the quarterly magazine of the calaveras county historical society, the town is named for john herbert wallace's father, john wallace, who was a well-known engineer and surveyor in the area. he had been elected san joaquin county surveyor. john wallace was also an elder brother of alfred russel wallace, a leading 19th century british naturalist who independently developed a theory of natural selection around the same time as charles darwin. john wallace had originally come to california for the california gold rush, but was unsuccessful as a miner.  

geography.
wallace is located at  (38.192911, -120.957759).

according to the united states census bureau, the cdp has a total area of 11.2 km\b2 (4.3 mi\b2).  11.0 km\b2 (4.2 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.2 km\b2 (0.1 mi\b2) of it (2.08%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 220 people, 87 households, and 68 families residing in the cdp.  the population density was 20.0/km\b2 (51.9/mi\b2).  there were 96 housing units at an average density of 8.7/km\b2 (22.6/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the cdp was 90.00% white, 1.36% black or african american, 0.45% native american, 2.27% asian, 0.91% from other races, and 5.00% from two or more races.  4.09% of the population were hispanic or latino of any race.

there were 87 households out of which 27.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 64.4% were married couples living together, 6.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 21.8% were non-families. 11.5% of all households were made up of individuals and 4.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.53 and the average family size was 2.74.

in the cdp the population was spread out with 22.3% under the age of 18, 4.1% from 18 to 24, 22.3% from 25 to 44, 36.8% from 45 to 64, and 14.5% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 46 years. for every 100 females there were 111.5 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 94.3 males.

the median income for a household in the cdp was $66,607, and the median income for a family was $70,568. males had a median income of $51,058 versus $22,308 for females. the per capita income for the cdp was $26,895.  none of the population or families were below the poverty line.

external links.









</doc>
<doc id="583461" title="substratum" nonfiltered="783" processed="770" dbindex="793">

in linguistics, a substratum (lat. sub: under +  stratum:  layer => lower layer) is a language which influences another one while that second language  supplants it. the term is also used of substrate interference, i.e. the influence exerted by the substratum language on the supplanting language. according to some classifications, this is one of three main types of linguistic interference: substratum interference differs from both adstratum, which involves mutual borrowing between languages of roughly equal prestige and no language replacement, and superstratum, which refers to the influence a socially dominating language has on another, receding language.

in a typical case of substrate intereference, a language a occupies a given territory, and another language b arrives in the same territory (brought, for example, with migrations of population). then language b begins to supplant language a: the speakers of language a abandon their own language in favour of b, generally because they believe that it is in their best (e.g. economic, political, cultural, social) interests to do so. during the language shift, however, the receding language a still influences language b (for example, through the transfer of loanwords, place-names, or grammatical patterns from a to b).

for example, gaulish is a substratum of french. a celtic people, the gauls, lived in the current french-speaking territory before the arrival of the romans. given the cultural, economic and political prestige which latin enjoyed, the gauls eventually abandoned their language in favour of latin, which evolved in this region until eventually it took the form of modern french. the gaulish speech disappeared, but it remains detectable in some french words (approximately ninety) as well as place-names of gaulish origin. 

another example is the influence of the north germanic norn language, extinct since the 18th century, in the scots dialects of the shetland and orkney islands. 

linguistic substrata may be difficult to detect, especially if the substratum language and its nearest relatives are extinct.  for example. the earliest form of the germanic languages may have been influenced by a non-indo-european language, purportedly the source of about one-quarter of the most ancient germanic word-stock; see germanic substrate hypothesis.

the word also has some other uses, referring to something underlying, something supporting. in horticulture: materials allowing the binding of roots of a plant. in metaphysics, the substratum is the real "thing-in-itself" or hypokeimenon which lies "beneath" or "beyond" appearances and perception of the thing.

see also.
 substrate (other meanings of substrate, often used informally instead of substratum).
 language transfer;
 superstratum;
 adstratum;
 language shift;
 greek substrate language;














</doc>
<doc id="212573" title="bobby hutton" nonfiltered="784" processed="771" dbindex="794">
bobby hutton, or "lil' bobby," was a member of the black panther party.  he joined soon after the conception of the bpp in 1966 at the age of 15.

on april 7, 1968, he was killed by oakland police after a firefight. eldridge cleaver was with him and was wounded.  the actual events of that night are muddy at best.  different stories from involved parties can be found here.  the black panthers claim he was unarmed, trying to surrender, and killed, while the police claim he was unarmed but trying to escape.

as an interesting sidenote, marlon brando attended his funeral.

a park in oakland, california, has been unofficially named after him. 

the 1968 album "together", by country joe and the fish, was dedicated to hutton.






</doc>
<doc id="4622142" title="portapak" nonfiltered="785" processed="772" dbindex="795">
the portapak was the first portable video recording device.  the first portapak-type video recorder was the sony dv-2400 video rover, which allowed a single person to record video in the field.  from a history of camcorders:

"the first  portable  video system, this two-piece set consisted of a large b&w camera and a separate record-only helical    vcr unit. it required a sony cv series vtr to play back the video. even thought it was clunky and heavy, it was light enough for a single person to carry it around.  however, it was usually operated by a crew of two -  one shot the camera and one carried and operated the vcr part.";

some credit the advent of the portapak with a blossoming of video art.

lord of the universe (documentary), which won a 1974 dupont-columbia_award, was the first portapak documentary produced for national television. 

bibliography.
 "history of camcorders," by mark shapiro, internet video magazine, 2002;
references.










</doc>
<doc id="6152294" title="nepal (band)" nonfiltered="786" processed="773" dbindex="796">

nepal was an argentinian thrash metal band from buenos aires, originally assembled in 1984.

biography.
nepal was founded in 1984 by beto v\e1zquez and javier bagala, larry joined shortly after that. the band participated in some metal festivals with their new music style called "power black metal".

in july of 1988, nepal recorded at cosmos studios their first demo "aquellos bastardos". they released that demo in cassette, with the band dr. jekyll. the demo became #1 in argentinian charts in the category "most important national demos". with this, they obtained more advertising in radios and magazines.

in june of 1989 they recorded their second demo "nepal ii", again at "cosmos studios" with a better sound quality and production. they participated in some concerts at cemento, arlequines theater and larra\f1aga theater. by the end of 1990, they had changed their line-up. they recorded the song "la se\f1al del metal" to be released in a split-album with other local bands.

in april of 1990 the band recorded the song "represor" (at "sonovision" studios in buenos aires with the help of alejandro devetak) to include it in the compilation "thrash vol.1", edited by "radio tripoli" label. the band re-released the demo "nepal ii" with a live track, "te destruir\e9", in side b. this edition sold 1000 copies. 

in january of 1992 dario galvan joined the band, and they started to compose new material to release an album. in november, they released their debut "raza de traidores" under "metal command records" in cassete format. it was recorded and mixed between may and august in "tma la escuelita" studios. they made a presentation gig for buenos aires and opened for the german band kreator. the "uruguay" label heavy weigh records released a sudamerican compilation including nepal's song "represor". they first show outside of argentina was in brazil (timbo) at the mountain rock festival with the band syndrome in april of 1995.

in october of 1995, they released their second album "ideolog\eda" under "metal command records  with the support of "monsters of rock" in a limited edition of 1000 copies. after that, they signed with nems enterprises. they did some concerts in buenos aires to present their new material. after the gig, the drummer, dario galvan, left the band and was replaced with facundo vega. they did two shows with angra on september of 1996. 

the band was invited to record the song "love gun" for a tribute album of kiss with other national bands. the tribute was released in october of 1996 under sleaze records. the official iron maiden argentinian fan club organized a concert tribute at "cemento" in may of 1997. the band interpreted wrathchild, running free and judas be my guide. the show was filmed to be shown to iron maiden's members.

at the end of 1996, the band started making the songs for their third album "manifiesto". that was mostly recorded, and mixed at el zoologico studios. this was released under nems enterprises in argentina, and rock brigade records in brazil. 

manifiesto was recorded with holophonic s 3d sound system, made and developed by the engineer roberto zuccarelli. this system allows a record with a three-dimensional sound. with this technology, the listener can feel the sound in a special position. while listening the album with discman you can feel the vocals and the instruments from outside, like in reality. this technology was utilized by bands and musicians like pink floyd, yes, roger walters, vangelis, steve vai, paul mccartney.

the concerts for the presentation of their new work started in january of 1998. in april, the band played as support for the band moonspell. on 22nd august, they did so for blind guardian in buenos aires at "cemento . the same year the participated in the "metal rock festival ii"

the producer of "rock and pop international" invited nepal to open for megadeth in 4th october of 1998. the same month they played in "cemento".

in january of 1999 the drummer dario galvan left the band to start a project of progressive music. he was replaced by marcelo ponce. the band played with almafuerte in "obras sanitarias" in front of 5000 people. at the end of may, nepal played again in "cemento" with two new songs ("genosiglo" and "sobre el filo") that were ready for the fourth album, never released.

members.

last line-up.
 larry zavala - vocals;
 beto v\e1zquez - bass and backing vocals;
 javier bagala - guitar;
 marcelo ponce - drums;

past members.
 dario galvan - drums;
 facundo vega - drums;

guest musicians.
 ricardo iorio;
 andr\e9 matos;
 george biddle;
 kiko loureiro;
 martin walkyier;
 hansi kursch;

discography.
albums.
 raza de traidores (1993);
 ideolog\eda (1995);
 manifiesto (1997);

demos.
 aquellos bastardos / rompehuesos (split cd) (1988);
 nepal ii (1989);

collaborations.
 metal rock festival ii (1998);
 navidad met\e1lica (1999);

cover songs.
 "love gun", by kiss;
 "children of the grave", by black sabbath;
 "lanzado al mundo hoy", by v8;
 "muy cansado estoy", by v8;

references.
;

external links.
 official website;






</doc>
<doc id="946060" title="cave dwellers" nonfiltered="787" processed="774" dbindex="797">
cave dwellers (ator l'invincibile 2) was a european film that was made in 1984. the movie was written and directed by joe d'amato. the filming for this movie was done in italy. it starred miles o'keeffe as ator, a man skilled in not only fighting, but in many other arts as well. it also starred charles borromel as akronas, a wise ruler and teacher who is also called the great one. the ever beautiful lisa foster starred as mila, the daughter of akronas, and david brandon starred as zor - the principal villain in this film. the film was released in theaters as "ator the invincible" and later as "ator, the blade master." it received the name "cave dwellers" after it was re-edited by distributor film ventures international. it is the sequel to 1982's "ator the fighting eagle" and was followed by 1986's "the iron warrior." the movies were made to capitalize on the popularity of the conan movies which starred arnold schwarzenegger.

the movie was featured in an episode of mystery science theater 3000; o'keefe was allegedly amused by the show's take on the film and called best brains (mst3k's production company) to personally request a copy of the episode. it is one of the more popular episodes of the series.  the movie is available in both vhs and dvd formats.



plot.
akronas has discovered the geometric nucleus during the course of his research. the nucleus is a device of incredible power that could be a terrible weapon. akronas feels that the nucleus must be kept from evil men at all costs. when he learns that the evil zor and his army are approaching his castle, he asks his daughter mila to bring his former student ator back to help defeat zor. mila runs away to find ator. zor's soldiers enter and begin beating akronas, but zor angrily sends them away to maintain the image of a man who would only use violence if needed.

mila is pursued by zor's soldiers, and is wounded by them, but continues to stagger towards ator's home. at last she arrives, and ator uses his medical knowledge to heal her wound. she then is able to convince him she is the daughter of akronas, and that her father is in terrible danger.

mila, ator and ator's asian assistant thong (chen wong) begin the journey back to akronas' castle, facing a variety of dangers along the way, including a group of cannibals, another group determined to sacrifice them to their god - which is a huge snake - and other soldiers.

finally they make it back to the castle. while mila and thong sneak in the back way, ator uses his knowledge of flight to quickly make a hang glider, which he flies over the castle, dropping bombs on zor's soldiers. having defeated most of zor's forces, ator takes on zor himself and defeats him. akronas convinces ator to let zor live to face trial, but when ator steps away, zor grabs a sword to threaten ator, and zor is killed by thong.

afterwards, akronas gives the geometric nucleus to ator. ator tells mila he has to leave, that his life is too dangerous to share with her. mila says that she knows ator must fight evil where ever it occurs. ator leaves thong behind to help take care of mila and akronas, and leaves. he takes the nucleus to a distant land, where he destroys it in a massive nuclear detonation.

reviews.
cave dwellers did not do well in critical reviews. critics have pointed to the plot, or lack thereof, continuity errors, one dimensional villains, and stolen sound effects as examples of the problems that existed in the film. a few editing errors showed up in the final version of the film - such as zor's face jumping in one shot.  several of the more well known errors were as follows;

 hang glider - somehow ator was able to assemble a hang glider, and use it to defeat zor's forces. even though the glider was disguised to make it look like it came from that time period, it was still evident that it was a modern glider. the scenery used during the flight was clearly from stock footage as the castle and surrounding lands was different than that shown on the ground. at one point, shots of ator hang gliding showed a modern city in the background.

 tire tracks - close to the end of the film, ator is shown riding off to fight evil where ever it occurs. riding on a horse, ator crosses a field. in the background, tire tracks made by a modern vehicle are clearly visible.

 sunglasses - during the attack on ator's home village, one of the extras who appeared as an attacker is wearing sunglasses, which showed up on film.

handrails - several of the staircases in the castle of akronas have modern handrails along the wall;

 nuclear bomb- the geometric nucleus is destroyed by a world war ii era nuclear bomb, which is detonated, followed by stock footage of a mushroom cloud;

the first three errors in this list were brought to the attention of the "mads" and consequently the audience of the film's mst3k episode.

furthermore, the movie seems to be confused as to what time setting and location it takes place in.  the title and slow motion footage during the opening credits (from the film taur the mighty) seems to suggest it takes place in pre-historic times, but akronas' castle appears to be from medieval europe.  later in the film, ator and his companions fight what appear to be samurai warriors from feudal japan.

external links.
;





</doc>
<doc id="4232641" title="memories of a catholic girlhood" nonfiltered="788" processed="775" dbindex="798">
memories of a catholic girlhood is the autobiography of mary mccarthy that was published in 1957. the book chronicles mccarthy's childhood including her being orphaned, having an abusive great uncle, and losing her catholic faith. in the book mccarthy writes details at the end of each chapter that other family members' claim do not correspond with their memory of events. she also writes where she embellished the material as well and told the story out of sequence.

publication data.
memories of a catholic girlhood, 1957, harvest/hbj, 1972 reprint:isbn 0-15-658650-9;







</doc>
<doc id="8024938" title="hoa phat" nonfiltered="789" processed="776" dbindex="799">


hoa phat is a vietnamese football club based in hoa phat. they play in the top division in vietnamese football.

achievements.
vietnamese cup: 1;
 2006;








</doc>
<doc id="3468349" title="sheshadri swamigal" nonfiltered="790" processed="777" dbindex="800">


sri seshadri swamigal was born on january 22nd 1870 in a small village near kanchipuram in south india in the renowned family of kamakoti. he studied vedas (hindu religious literature) at a very young age. an incident in his childhood reveals the greatness of his power when his mother took him to a temple fair and he touched an idol from a seller who had all the idols sold out like hotcakes, which were not getting sold out earlier. this gave him the name "thanga kai"(golden hand). since he did not have any worldly attractions, he became a sanyasi (ascetic) and came to tiruvannamalai at the age of nineteen and remained there till he attained mahasamadhi(a subtle state of divine bliss) in the year 1929.

when ramana maharishi came to tiruvannamalai he went inside the 'badala linga' shrine in 1000- pillar mantapa in arunachaleswara temple for meditation to avoid disturbance. he was in deep meditation for many days and ants started eating his legs and thighs. seshadri swamigal saw this. he cleansed ramana off his wounds caused by ants and revealed ramana as the  to the world.

unlike ramana, seshadri never stayed in place in tiruvannamalai and preached his teachings. but, he blessed devotees and help cure their illness with his wonderful touch.

sri seshadri swamigal sometimes when in tiruvannamalai, he used to throw the articles from the shops. the shops he entered used to do good business on that day and so shopkeepers used to eagerly await his arrival. to this day, the shops in tiruvannamalai have his photos as a symbol of good luck and prosperity.

 external links 

 sri seshadri swamigal good biography of this 20th century arunachala saint;







</doc>
<doc id="7016724" title="federal league park" nonfiltered="791" processed="778" dbindex="801">
federal league park is a former baseball ground located in indianapolis, indiana. the ground was home to the indianapolis hoosiers of the federal league in 1914.







</doc>
<doc id="742291" title="m\f3cheno language" nonfiltered="792" processed="779" dbindex="802">
m\f3cheno is an upper german dialect spoken in three towns of the fersina valley (german: fersental, italian: valle del fersina, mocheno: bersntol), in trentino-south tyrol, northeastern italy.

m\f3cheno is related to austro-bavarian and is variously classified either as a southern bavarian dialect or a separate language of its own. m\f3cheno speakers reportedly partially understand bavarian, cimbrian, or standard german, which argues for classifying it as a dialect. however, many essential differences in grammar, vocabulary and pronunciation, render it practically unintelligible for speakers of german or austro-bavarian, so it may be more justified to consider it a separate language. 

as of 1992 m\f3cheno was spoken by 1,900 speakers, including 400 in fierozzo (vlarotz-florutz), 1,000 in pal\f9 del fersina (palae-palai), and 460 in frassilongo (garait-gereut). 

external links.
ethnologue report for m\f3cheno;








</doc>
<doc id="5842143" title="john rollins" nonfiltered="793" processed="780" dbindex="803">
john rollins (born june 25, 1975) is an american professional golfer. he was born in richmond, virginia. he has had pga tour victories in 2002 and 2006.

he has featured in the top 50 of the official world golf rankings. 

pga tour wins. 
2002 bell canadian open;
2006 b.c. open;

external links.
profile on the pga tour's official site;











</doc>
<doc id="5720564" title="global reach" nonfiltered="794" processed="781" dbindex="804">
global reach is a business initiative to increase the access between a company and their current and potential customers through the use of the internet. the internet allows the company to market themselves and attract new customers to their website where they can provide product information and better customer service.  customers can place orders electronically, therefore reducing expensive long distant phone calls and postage costs of placing orders, while saving time on behalf of the customer and company.  

a company striving to obtain global reach should provide a code of ethics, a company purchasing policy, additional contact information, adequate product information and price.  the website itself should be multi-lingual, easy-to-use, and have the ability to secure customer information.   

 references .
haag, s., cummings, m., mccubbrey, d., pinsonneault, a., & donovan, r. (2006). management information systems for the information age (3rd canadian ed.). canada: mcgraw hill ryerson, p.163 v

 see also .
globalization

the global economy

 external links .
 an example of global reach;
 help to extend global reach;
 internet language statistics;




</doc>
<doc id="829959" title="division no. 6, alberta" nonfiltered="795" processed="782" dbindex="805">

division no. 6 is a census division in southern alberta, canada, centred around calgary. the division largely includes the cooperative of communities known as the calgary regional partnership (the calgary region) and essentially represents calgary's metropolitan area.

demographics.
(statistics canada, 2001)
dwellings: 394,884;
population: 1,021,060;
population change (from 1996): +15.9%;
area: 12,642.14 km\b2;
density: 80.8/km\b2;

communities.
cities;
airdrie;
calgary;
towns;
black diamond;
carstairs;
chestermere;
cochrane;
crossfield;
didsbury;
high river;
irricana;
okotoks;
olds;
sundre;
turner valley;
villages;
beiseker;
cremona;
longview;
hamlets;
blackie;
bragg creek;
cayley;
langdon;
water valley;
municipal districts;
foothills no. 31;
rocky view no. 44;
county municipalities;
mountain view county;
reserves;
eden valley 216;
tsuu t'ina nation 145;

surrounding census divisions.


references.













</doc>
<doc id="3977263" title="net music countdown" nonfiltered="796" processed="783" dbindex="806">
net music countdown is a radio show hosted by david lawrence that counts down the most popular music on the internet over the past week.  syndicated on over 70 radio stations and both satellite radio services in partnership with united stations, the shows countdown the hottest hits on the internet, with flavors for alternative rock, chr (top 40) and hot ac (adult contemporary). each show is based on in-house research and those charts are licensed as their etracks charts by allaccess.com, for which lawrence edits the weekly internet/digital music tracking. the nmc etracks charts are widely considered the official music charts of the internet. reporters to the etracks include apple's itunes music store, aande.com radio, about radio, amazon.com, barnesandnoble.com,
bellsouth.com, bolt radio, b&n radio, cdnow.com, gracenote/cddb, launch.yahoo.com, musicmatch.co, radio free virgin, radio lycos, real one, radio@aol, the radioamp network, and over 40 other performance licensed internet sales and streaming outlets. both techtv and cnet use the nmc top 5 for their weekly look at net music popularity.



</doc>
<doc id="1710822" title="weak emergence" nonfiltered="797" processed="784" dbindex="807">
weak emergence is a type of emergence in which the emergent property is reducible to its individual constituents.

this is opposed to strong emergence, in which the emergent property is irreducible to its individual constituents.
external link.
emergence;





</doc>
<doc id="451349" title="ie, okinawa" nonfiltered="798" processed="785" dbindex="808">

ie (japanese:     -son; kunigami:  i ) is a village located in kunigami district, okinawa, japan. the village lies on the island of iejima. 

as of 2003, the village has an estimated population of 5,128 and the density of 225.41 persons per km\b2. the total area is 22.75 km\b2;.







</doc>
<doc id="886895" title="narrativity" nonfiltered="799" processed="786" dbindex="809">
in film theory, narrativity refers to the processes by which a story is both presented by the filmmaker and interpreted by the viewer.  the term must be distinguished from narrative, which refers to the story itself.

narrativity is a common subject of debate in film theory. many believe that the interpretation of a film's narrative is subjective.  in other words, the same story may appear differently to a viewer, depending on their background.  other important aspects explored by film theorists are the factors which distinguish narrativity in film from that of other art forms.

when exploring narrativity in film, several factors must be taken into account.  for example, the order in which the events of the story are presented.  films often employ non-linear storytelling, which refers to a story not presented chronologically.  another important facet of narrativity is montage, or the juxtaposition of images.  perhaps most importantly of all, are the images themselves.  a filmmaker's choice of what to show, and what not to show is key to understanding them as an artist and a storyteller.




</doc>
<doc id="2821592" title="the park school of buffalo" nonfiltered="800" processed="787" dbindex="810">


the park school of buffalo is an american private country school located north of buffalo, new york in snyder, a hamlet inside the town of amherst in erie county.  founded in 1912, the private college preparatory institution, serves roughly 245 students from pre-kindergarten to grade 12 .

the non-sectarian school says that it bases its educational philosophy on john dewey with an individualized approach to teaching.

the buffalo rapids of the aba played home games at the school from november 2005 to february 2006.

 notable alumni .
eugene f. provenzo - professor of the university of miami, education specialist.
sam hoyt - member of new york assembly ;

external links.
official web site;
new york state association of independent schools - profile of the park school of buffalo.












</doc>
<doc id="9206499" title="metal-insulator transition" nonfiltered="801" processed="788" dbindex="811">
metal-insulator transitions refer to changes in the transport properties of a given material. roughly speaking, materials can be classified as metals, allowing for good conductivity of electric charges, and as insulators, where conductivity of charges is quickly surpressed. in some materials, most notably semiconductors, changing their ambient conditions by, e.g. applying pressure or gate voltages, one can tune the transport properties from metallic to insulating or vice versa. these materials are thus useful as controlling devices in electric and electronic circuits.

theoretical understanding of metal-insulator transitions elucidates roughly 3 classes of metal-insulator transitions. doping a material can change its internal electronic structure, giving rise to or eliminating band gaps. materials in which a band gap prohibits electronic conductivity are call band-gap insulators. electron-electron interaction can also lead to the opening of an interaction-induced gap, the so-called mott]-hubbard gap]. disorder in the material composition can lead to anderson localization which prohibits conductivity. this is a disorder-induced metal-insulator transition even without any band gap.

external links.
example of an electronic eigenstate at the mit in a system with 1367631 atoms. each cube indicates by its size the probability to find the electron at the given position. the color scale denotes the position of the cubes along the axis into the plane;





</doc>
<doc id="8916159" title="1949 memorial cup" nonfiltered="802" processed="789" dbindex="812">
the 1949 memorial cup final was a best of 7 series between the montreal royals, winners of the george richardson memorial trophy, and the brandon wheat kings, winners of the abbott cup, held at the shea's amphitheatre in winnipeg, manitoba and the wheat city arena in brandon, manitoba.  montreal won their 1st memorial cup, defeating brandon in 8 games.

 scores .

game 1: montreal 3-2 brandon (in winnipeg);
game 2: brandon 3-2 montreal (in brandon);
game 3: brandon 3-3 montreal (in brandon);
game 4: montreal 1-0 brandon (in winnipeg);
game 5: montreal 7-4 brandon (in brandon);
game 6: brandon 2-1 montreal (in brandon);
game 7: brandon 5-1 montreal (in brandon);
game 8: montreal 6-4 brandon (in winnipeg);

 winning roster.
eric appleby, gordon armstrong, matthew benoit, robert bleau, fredrick burchell, mike darling, victor fildes, robert frampton, john hirschfeld, gordon knutson, neale langill, peter larocque, tommy manastersky, dickie moore, william rattay, donald rose, roland rousseau.  coach: j.t. millar

see also.











</doc>
<doc id="3225300" title="zenaida doves" nonfiltered="803" processed="790" dbindex="813">


the zenaida doves (zenaida) make up a small genus of american doves. there are 7 species:

 white-winged dove,  zenaida asiatica;
 pacific dove,  zenaida meloda;
 zenaida dove,  zenaida aurita;
 galapagos dove,  zenaida galapagoensis;
 eared dove,  zenaida auriculata;
 mourning dove,  zenaida macroura;
 socorro dove,  zenaida graysoni (extinct in the wild);

dna sequence analysis (johnson & clayton, 2000) confirms that the white-winged and pacific doves are the most distinct and that they should be treated as good species. relationships among the other species are quite unequivocal too; what is not quite clear is whether the galapagos dove is most closely related to the zenaida dove (as tentatively indicated by morphology) or to the eared and mourning doves (as suggested by dna sequences - although with a very low confidence level - and, most robustly, biogeography).

the name of this genus commemorates z\e9na\efde laetitia julie bonaparte, wife of charles lucien bonaparte.

references.
 johnson, kevin p. & clayton, dale h. (2000): a molecular phylogeny of the dove genus zenaida: mitochondrial and nuclear dna sequences. condor 102(4): 864-870. pdf fulltext;








</doc>
<doc id="216915" title="british halfpenny coin" nonfiltered="804" processed="791" dbindex="814">




it was long considered that the first halfpenny coins were produced in the reign of king edward i (1272 1307), with earlier requirements for small change being provided by "cut coinage"; that is, pennies cut into halves or quarters, usually along the cross which formed a prominent part of the reverse of the coin. however, in recent years metal detectorists have discovered a few halfpennies of kings henry i (1100 1135) and henry iii (1216 1272)   these are extremely rare and very little is known about them; they have all been found in the london area, where they circulated alongside the more common cut coinage, and while it is possible that these coins were patterns or trials, it is clear that they did see circulation. no documentary evidence of these coins is known to exist, and it is possible that there are other coins or issues still to be discovered.

before decimalisation brought in a new penny and new, rather stiff pronunciations, "halfpenny" was usually pronounced "ha'penny" so 1 d was pronounced "a penny ha'penny" or "three ha'pence".

early halfpennies.
a few henry i silver halfpennies have been discovered recently. the issue is possibly a pattern or trial, but it is obvious that several specimens entered circulation. the obverse features an uncrowned front-facing bust of the king, with the inscription henric rex   king henry   while the obverse features a cross with the identification of the moneyer godwin a on wi   godwin of winchester.

two issues, both struck at the london mint, have been discovered recently. both are in the short-cross style of king henry iii, produced between 1216 and 1247, and are similar in design to the pennies, but only half the size. the obverse shows a crowned bust of the king holding a sceptre, with the inscription henricus rex, while the reverse shows a small cross with four pellets in each quarter with the moneyer's inscription terri (or elis) on lund   terry (or elis) of london.

edwardian and henrician halfpennies.
king edward i (1272-1307) successfully introduced the halfpenny as part of his new coinage, which allowed trade to increase. as with all coins of this period, the denomination was not written on the coin, which was worth its weight in silver, thus a halfpenny was half the size and weight of a penny. all hammered coinage halfpennies tend to be difficult to identify because they were small, often clipped, and in poor condition, and the legends on the coins are often incorrect because of the difficulty in making dies which were small enough for the denomination. the fact that kings edward ii, iii, and iv also issued halfpennies make it difficult to distinguish between them   in general, edward i's coins are slightly larger than his successors'. as with other denominations, by far the majority of coins were produced at the london mint, in the tower of london, but five other mints were active in edward i's reign. the legend on the reverse of the coin identifies the mint's name, and reads civitas london or londoniensis for london, villa bristollie for bristol, civitas lincol for lincoln, novi castri for newcastle-upon-tyne, civitas eboraci for york, and villa berevvici for berwick-upon-tweed. 

the king's name appears on the obverse inscription, usually edw, edwa, or edwr r angl dns hyb, or ricard or henri for an issue of richard ii (1377 1399) or henry iv (1399-1413).

in the reign of edward ii (1307-1327), halfpennies were only produced at the mints in london and berwick, probably because sufficient were produced when his father introduced the new coinage. the principal difference between the coins of edward ii and his father is that the obverse inscription of the london-produced coins read edwardus rex a(ng), and edwardus rex an on the berwick-produced coins.

three mints were actively producing halfpennies in the reign of edward iii, 1327-1377, at london, berwick, and reading (villa radingy), although berwick and reading coins are very rare. the usual obverse inscription of this reign was edwardus rex an   edward king of the english   or occasionally on earlier coins edwardus rex   king edward   or edwardus anglie d or edwardus dei gra r   edward by the grace of god king of england. at this time english coins were much envied in europe for their weight and good metal content, with the result that english halfpennies were copied on the continent; they are similar in style to those of edward iii, but the obverse legend often reads edwardiensis.

king richard ii (1377 1399) produced all his halfpennies at the london mint. the obverse legend reads richard (or ricard) rex angl   richard king of england   around a front-facing bust of the king.

the halfpennies of henry iv (1399 1413) are difficult to identify, mainly because they have been heavily clipped or worn. the obverse legend reads henric rex angl around a front-facing bust of the king, while the reverse legend reads civitas london. in 1412 the weight of the halfpenny was reduced from 4.5 grains (0.29 grams) to 3.75 grains (0.24 grams), although coins were produced from the same dies as before.

the halfpennies of henry v (1413 1422) are a little easier to identify, but the basic design remained the same as before.

in the first reign of henry vi (1422 1461), halfpennies were commonly produced at london, calais (villa calis), and less commonly at york. the designs are basically continuations of those of the earlier henries, with the obverse legend henric rex angl.

the halfpennies of the first reign of king edward iv (1461 1470) are divided into the heavy coinage up to 1464, which was only minted in london, and the light coinage from 1464, produced at london, bristol (now villa bristow), canterbury (civitas cantor), york, and norwich (civitas norwic). the obverse inscription reads edward di gra rex.

during the short second reign of henry vi (1470 1471), halfpennies were produced at london and bristol. the obverse inscription was changed to read henric di gra rex.

halfpennies of the second reign of edward iv (1471 1483) are much like those of the first reign (only a few months earlier), with the addition that they were also produced at durham (civitas deram).

king richard iii's (1483 1485) short reign only produced halfpennies from the london mint. the obverse inscription reads ricard di gra rex, which distinguishes the coins from those of richard ii.

tudor halfpennies.
halfpennies in the reign of henry vii (1485 1509) were produced mostly at london, but also at canterbury and york. henry's coins are fairly distinct from those of the earlier henries, with the king's front-facing portrait being different in style, and the obverse legend reading henric dei gra rex.

by the reign of king henry viii, the halfpenny was becoming a coin of lesser importance, and less effort was spent on producing good-quality impressions on the coin blanks, with the result that many of the inscriptions are difficult to read. the coins of his first and second coinage (1509 1526 and 1526 1544) look similar to those of his father, henry vii, although the obverse inscriptions were changed between the two coinages, from henric di gra rex angl to h dg rosa sie spia   henry by the grace of god a rose without a thorn.

the third (1544 1547) and posthumous (1547 1551) coinage halfpennies have a more lifelike bust, but were produced in debased silver (only 1/3 silver and 2/3 copper) and therefore are usually in a very poor condition.

in the short reign (1547 1553) of king edward vi there were several issues of halfpennies. the first issue was produced between april 1547 and january 1549 at the tower and bristol mints, both mints' products are extremely rare and had the crowned bust of the king on the obverse, with the inscription edg rosa sin spin (or ed6 dg rosa sin spin on some bristol coins), and a cross with civitas london or civitas bristoli on the reverse. the final issue of halfpennies was produced at the tower mint between 1550 and 1553 with the obverse legend being edg rosa sine spina surrounding a rose in the centre of the coin, and the reverse showing civitas london around the royal shield over a cross. the quality of silver in this final issue of halfpennies was so poor that the coin was often used as a farthing.

no halfpennies were produced in the reigns of mary, or of philip and mary, or for the first 20 years of the reign of queen elizabeth i.

halfpennies were produced in some quantity in elizabeth i's fifth and sixth coinage issues (1582 1600 and 1601 1602). because of their small size, they did not have the queen's effigy or any legends on them, but instead had a portcullis on the obverse and a cross on the reverse. sixth-issue coins also had a mintmark on the obverse: "1" for 1601 and "2" for 1602.

17th-century silver halfpennies.
when james i ascended the throne in 1603, for the first couple of years halfpennies were produced in the same style as elizabeth i's sixth issue, though with a thistle or lis mintmark. from 1604 onwards, there was a completely different style of coin of a rose on the obverse and a thistle on the reverse.

surprisingly, considering the huge variety of coins of other denominations produced during his reign between 1625 and 1649, hardly any halfpennies were minted during the reign of charles i. the commonest issue was produced at the tower mint and simply had a rose on both sides of the coin. the other issue was produced at the aberystwyth mint, and had a rose on one side and plumes on the reverse.

the final silver halfpennies were produced under the auspices of the commonwealth. commonwealth halfpennies were extremely plain, having no inscription on either side, but a shield containing st george's cross on the obverse, and the irish harp on the reverse.

base-metal halfpennies.
in the early years of the reign of king charles ii (1660 1685), there was a clear need for low-denomination coins to fund day-to-day purchases. the silver 1d and 2d coins issued in the first few years of the reign were being hoarded, and tradesmen in many parts of the country had taken to issuing private tokens in base metal; while this was an offence, in practice penalties were minimal and the government appreciated the need for such coinage which was not available legally. a problem with the production of low-value coins is that if the face value is less than the cost of production (including the metal) then the exercise is done at a loss and the coins may be clipped or melted down for their metal content; if the face value is higher, counterfeit coins begin to appear. the mint was not ready to produce copper coins until 1672; by that time maundy-type small silver (1d 4d) coins were being produced and were circulating widely, so therefore no copper pennies were produced, although a royal proclamation in august 1672 decreed that halfpennies and farthings would be issued, and that they would have a face value equal to the value of the metal less the cost of producing them. the new coins were legal tender up to a total value of six pence, and depicted britannia (modelled by the duchess of richmond) on the reverse. it was soon discovered that the mint was incapable of producing the copper blanks needed for the new coins, and these eventually were imported from sweden; to facilitate the process, the customs duty on the import of the metal was waived. further delays ensued, caused not least by transportation problems, and the first halfpennies did not appear in circulation until after christmas (remembering that the year did not end until 24 march in those days, so there were still three months before the start of 1673).

the ideal of striking coins with a value equal to their production costs was not long maintained, and the coins were given a face value slightly higher than their metal content, so inevitably counterfeits soon began to appear.

it is interesting to note that charles ii's head faces left on the copper coinage, and right on the silver coinage.

the copper halfpenny weighed between 10.0 and 12.0 grams and had a diameter of 28 31 millimetres. the inscription on the obverse, around the king's head, reads carolvs a carolo   charles, son of charles   while the reverse shows britan nia around the left facing seated britannia, holding a spray and trident, with the date beneath britannia. coins were produced dated 1672, 1673, and 1675.

the halfpennies of king james ii (1685 1688) were made of tin with a small square plug of copper in the centre. the corrosion properties of tin mean that very few coins survive in a good state of preservation, not helped by the electrochemical reaction between copper and tin. the object of using tin was to produce coins at a profit while at the same time producing a coin which would be difficult to counterfeit, and at the same time assist the ailing tin-mining industry. the coins weighed between 10.5 and 11.6 grams, with a diameter of 28 30 millimetres. the obverse showed the right-facing effigy of the king with the inscription iacobvs secvndvs   james the second   while the reverse shows the same britannia as before. unusually, the date appears not on the reverse but on the edge of the coin, which has the inscription nvmmorvm famvlvs date   a subsidiary coinage. the coins were produced in 1685, 1686, and 1687.

in the joint reign of william iii and mary ii (1688 1694), the production of bimetallic tin/copper halfpennies continued in 1689, 1690, 1691 and 1692. however the tin coinage was becoming increasingly unpopular because the public did not feel that there was any intrinsic value in the coins and also the corrosion problem had become apparent; even worse, lead counterfeits had started to appear. just before the queen's death from smallpox in 1694 a copper halfpenny, weighing 9.1 11.7 grams with 28 31 millimetres diameter was reintroduced. the contract for the new coins stipulated that the copper used should be english and the blanks struck at the mint. it is noticeable that charles ii's swedish-copper halfpennies have toned to a dark red colour, while the william and mary halfpennies tone to black, presumably because of different trace elements in the copper.

the obverse inscription read gvlielmvs et maria, while the reverse reads britannia (with the date beneath britannia in 1694). the 1689 1692 coins have the edge inscription nvmmorvm famvlvs date. 

for the widowed king william iii, the production of halfpennies continued under the contract granted during the previous reign. however it soon became apparent that the manufacturers were in breach of contract   to save costs, not only were some of the blanks being cast rather than struck, but some of the coins were themselves being cast in one operation. there were other ways in which the manufacturers were economising on expenses   cheap labour was being used, including foreigners some of whom could not spell or punctuate the words they were engraving on the dies. towards the end of the reign both the workmanship and the design and production of the dies for the copper coinage had sunk to a nadir, which is curious as simultaneously the mint was producing the highest quality work in the five and two guinea pieces which were being produced. by 1698 there was a glut of copper coinage and an act was passed to stop the coining for one year; this seems to have had little effect and the proliferation continued. there were further parliamentary attempts to control the glut of coinage later.

the william iii halfpenny appears with various distinct types of engraving of the king's head, britannia, and the inscriptions, with the quality getting worse as the reign wore on. the coins were copper, weighing 8.9 to 11.5 grams, with a diameter of 28 29 millimetres. the king's effigy on the obverse faced right, with the inscription gvlielmvs tertivs   william the third. britannia appears on the reverse with the inscription britannia and the date normally in the exergue beneath britannia. coins were produced each year between 1695 and 1701. 

the glut of copper coinage was sufficient that there was no need to produce any copper halfpennies during the reign of queen anne (1701 1714).

the united kingdom.
soon after the accession of king george i (1714 1727) the surplus of copper coins was used up, and in 1717 a new contract was signed and a royal warrant issued for the production of a new halfpenny. the halfpennies struck in 1717 and 1718 looked slightly odd as they were smaller, thicker and somewhat lighter than the previous issues, weighing 9.4 10.3 grams with a diameter of 25 27 millimetres, but they were well-struck with high-relief features of the right-facing head of king george and the inscription georgivs rex on the obverse, and britannia with the inscription britannia and the date in the exergue beneath britannia. the 1717 1718 issue is known as the dump halfpenny. for the 1719 1724 issue, the size of the coin was increased to 26 29 millimetres, though with the same weight of metal as before.

george ii's (1727 1760) halfpennies were the most prolific issue yet, but to them must be added a huge range of counterfeits (and pieces similar to counterfeits but with markedly different legends from the real coins, so that the manufacturers could avoid accusations of counterfeiting). many genuine coins were melted down and underweight fabrications produced from the molten metal. it is difficult for those of us who use a modern regulated currency to appreciate the extent to which counterfeiting had debased the currency   for long periods of time, counterfeits outnumbered genuine coins. halfpennies were produced in all years between 1729 and 1754, with the exception of 1741. they weighed 9.7 10.3 grams and had a diameter of 28 30 millimetres. the obverse showed the left-facing head of king george and the inscription georgivs ii rex on the obverse, and britannia with the inscription britannia and the date in the exergue beneath britannia.

in the reign of king george iii (1760 1820) the first issue of halfpennies did not come until 10 years after the king's accession, in 1770. counterfeiting was rampant, and in 1771 the utterance of counterfeit copper coin became a felony; this however had little effect and for the next twenty years or so the majority of copper so-called coins in circulation were forgeries. in march 1782 a woman counterfeiter was hanged, then fixed to a stake and burned before the debtor's door at newgate prison in london. in a letter to lord hawkesbury of 14 april 1789, matthew boulton commented "in the course of my journeys, i observe that i receive upon an average two-thirds counterfeit halfpence for change at toll-gates, etc., and i believe the evil is daily increasing, as the spurious money is carried into circulation by the lowest class of manufacturers, who pay with it the principal part of the wages of the poor people they employ". boulton's contract in 1797 to produce the cartwheel pennies and twopences, thwarting the counterfeiters, did not extend to producing the halfpenny, though boulton had expected that it would, and had prepared patterns of the appropriate size and weight in accordance with his ideas on the intrinsic value of copper coins. the reason the government gave for the omission of the denomination from the contract was that the large number of de facto halfpennies (including tokens and fakes!) would be driven out of circulation and boulton would be unable to produce enough coins to meet the demand that would ensue. public demand for legal halfpennies soon forced the government to change its mind, and in 1798 a contract was issued to boulton for him to produce halfpennies and farthings dated 1799. however in the meantime the price of copper had risen, and consequently the weight of the coins was reduced slightly, which resulted in them not being as popular as expected. in 1806 a further 427.5 tons of copper was struck into halfpennies by boulton, but the price of copper had risen again and the weight was even less than the 1799 issue. this time, however, there was no unfavourable reaction from the public, so perhaps the national obsession with "intrinsic value" was over.

george iii halfpennies were produced in three distinct phases:
1770 1775 (all years). weight 9.2 10.8 grams, diameter 29 30 millimetres. obverse shows a right-facing bust of the king, with the inscription georgivs iii rex, reverse shows a left-facing seated britannia holding a spray and spear, with the inscription britannia and the date in the exergue beneath britannia. (the king's bust has a fuller face in 1774 and 1775).
1799. weight 12.0 13.1 grams, diameter 30 31 millimetres. obverse shows a right-facing bust of the king, with the inscription georgivs iii dei gratia rex, reverse shows a redesigned left-facing seated britannia holding a spray and spear, with the inscription britannia 1799.
1806 1807. weight 9.2 9.8 grams, diameter 29 millimetres. obverse shows a right-facing bust of the king, with the inscription georgivs iii d g rex date, reverse shows a slightly different left-facing seated britannia holding a spray and spear, with the inscription britannia.

after the mint moved from the tower of london to tower hill the production of gold and silver coins took precedence over copper. the production of copper coins did not resume until the reign of king george iv (1820 1830), when farthings were produced in 1821. the issue of new halfpennies did not happen until 14 november 1825 as a result of a disagreement between the egocentric designer pistrucci and the authorities, which resulted in william wyon being invited to design the coins instead. this delay may be regarded as a good thing, as wyon's designs are generally considered among the most elegant british coins. the george iv halfpenny was produced between 1825 and 1827, weighed 9.1 9.5 grams, with a diameter of 28 millimetres. the obverse shows a left-facing laureated bust of king george iv with the inscription georgius iv dei gratia date, while the reverse shows a right-facing seated helmeted britannia with a shield and trident, with the inscription britanniar rex fid def. wyon's preference was to put the date under the king's bust, and to put the rose, thistle, and shamrock in the exergue underneath britannia where the date commonly appeared before.

the halfpenny of william iv (1830 1837), produced in 1831, 1834, and 1837, continues the george iv design but with a right-facing bust of the new king, with the inscription gulielmus iiii dei gratia date, while the reverse is identical to the previous reigns'.

the halfpennies of queen victoria's long reign (1837 1901) can be basically divided into the copper issue of 1838-1860, where the coins were 9.1 9.5 grams in weight and 28 millimetres in diameter, and which were very similar to the halfpennies of her two predecessors (with the obvious substitution of reg for rex on the reverse!), and the bronze issue of 1860 1901 (which itself is split between 1894 and 1895 into coins displaying the "young head" and the "old head" of the queen). the bronze coins weighed 5.5 5.8 grams and were 25 millimetres in diameter. the bronze coins also featured the denomination half penny on the reverse for the first time, with the date in the exergue beneath britannia. the inscription on the obverse of the "young head" coins reads victoria d g britt reg f d, while on the "old head" it is victoria dei gra britt regina fid def ind imp. some 1874 1876 and 1881 1882 halfpennies have an "h" mintmark underneath the date, indicating that they were produced at the heaton mint in birmingham. halfpennies were produced in all years of victoria's reign except 1837, 1840, 1842, 1849 and 1850.

halfpennies weighing 5.7 grams and of 1 inch (25.4 millimetres) diameter (which was to remain the standard size of the coin for the remainder of its existence) were minted in all years of edward vii's reign (1901 1910) except 1901. they are similar to the last issues of queen victoria except for the king's right-facing bust on the obverse, with the inscription edwardvs vii dei gra britt omn rex fid def ind imp, and also are extremely reminiscent of the contemporary penny.

the reign of king george v produced halfpennies to an unchanged design every year between 1911 and 1936. the obverse shows a left-facing portrait of the king by sir bertram mackennal, with the inscription georgivs v dei gra britt omn rex fid def ind imp, and the usual right-facing britannia on the reverse. unlike some of the pennies of this reign, no halfpennies have mintmarks from provincial mints. halfpennies of this reign suffer somewhat from "ghosting", caused by production problems when the image of one side partly comes through to the other; efforts were made to solve the problem with a modification of the king's effigy in 1925, but the problem wasn't finally solved until a second modification in 1928.

a halfpenny exists for king edward viii, although strictly speaking it is a pattern which would have been awaiting royal approval about the time that the king abdicated in december 1936. being somewhat vain, the king insisted that his left profile be used on the coinage instead of the right, which would have been used if he had followed the alternating tradition going back to charles ii; the obverse has the inscription edwardvs viii d g br omn rex f d ind imp, but in a complete break from tradition britannia was dropped from the reverse for the first time since 1672, and replaced by a sailing ship, said to represent sir francis drake's golden hind. this reverse remained in use for the remainder of the coins' existence.

halfpennies of a similar design to his brothers' were produced in each year of the reign of king george vi. the inscription on the obverse reads georgivs vi d g br omn rex f d ind imp until 1948, then georgivs vi d g br omn rex fidei def. there are reported to be slight differences in the reverse   the size and positioning of the ship, the inscription half penny and the date under the ship   from year to year, but numismatists differ in opinion as to whether this is significant enough to count as a design variation each year, or just one design for the whole reign.

unlike the penny, queen elizabeth ii's reign produced halfpennies every year between 1953 and 1967, except for 1961. the reverse was the same as before, while the obverse featured the queen's head by mary gillick, with the inscription elizabeth ii dei gra britt omn regina f d in 1953, and elizabeth ii dei gratia regina f d for the rest of the reign. 

the halfpenny coin ceased to be legal tender after 31 july 1969, although proof coins were produced, dated 1970, for the cased proof sets bidding farewell to the old currency.

the new two pence coin, introduced when decimalisation of british coinage took effect in 1971, is essentially the same size as the halfpenny coin as it had most recently existed.






</doc>
<doc id="6105042" title="free port apatin" nonfiltered="805" processed="792" dbindex="815">
the free port apatin is a free customs zone, cargo-transportation center and port with wharf which will will form an economic unit known under the name "slobodna zona apatin" (and will cover 160 hectar of ground next to river danube. it will also represent one of the potentially largest economical undertakings in the region.



</doc>
<doc id="3236362" title="canadian action party candidates, 2000 canadian federal election" nonfiltered="806" processed="793" dbindex="816">
the canadian action party fielded a number of candidates in the 2000 federal election, none of whom were elected.  information about these candidates may be found here.

ontario.

ross elliott.

elliott (born july 7, 1957 in montreal, quebec) is a founder of homestead building solutions.  he studied biology at concordia university and environmental science at the university of waterloo.  ross ran on a platform of restoring support to canada's health and education system, while opposing the imposition of the canadian gun registry.  he also stressed the fact that he was not a professional politician.  he received 388 votes (0.61%), finishing sixth against canadian alliance candidate scott reid. 

in 2002, elliott helped to design the world's first bubble greenhouse (ottawa citizen, 22 june 2002).  he has estimated that its heating costs are 75% lower than those of a standard greenhouse (toronto star, 27 january 2005).



</doc>
<doc id="3052170" title="cookstown airport" nonfiltered="807" processed="794" dbindex="817">







cookstown airport, , is located 4.0 nautical miles (7.41 km) northeast of cookstown, ontario, canada.

references.
;








</doc>
<doc id="2229723" title="pottsville high school" nonfiltered="808" processed="795" dbindex="818">
pottsville high school is a secondary school located in pottsville, arkansas completed in 1998 and administered by the pottsville school district no. 61.

as of 2005, the school principal is mr. larry dugger.

academics.
in 1999-2000, the school was named one of "america's top 100" technology in education schools. 

facilities.
the school was formerly located on the same campus as the elementary and middle schools, but a new building was built in 1998 with an addition installed in 2000 and features several state of the art facilities, including a complete chemistry lab several computer labs for technological learning. 
 
athletics.
the school's sports teams are called the apaches and the lady apaches. for football, the apaches participate in the state's aaa classification.


in 1997, pottsville won the boy's class a state championship in cross country running.

 references .


external links.
 pottsville high school website;







</doc>
<doc id="8818118" title="mayas-usa" nonfiltered="809" processed="796" dbindex="819">


mayas-usa is a team of the world basketball association scheduled to begin play in 2007.  they are owned by the liga nacional balonocesto professional (the primary basketball league in mexico)'s mayas de yucatan, and play their games in dallas, texas.

external link.
press release announcing team;




</doc>
<doc id="2171679" title="division of watson" nonfiltered="810" processed="797" dbindex="820">
the division of watson is an australian electoral division in the state of new south wales. it is located in the southern suburbs of sydney, and includes the suburbs of canterbury, belmore, lakemba, roselands, kingsgrove and hurstville.

the division was created at the redistribution of january 31 1992, to replace the abolished division of st george and is named after hon john christian watson, the first labor prime minister of australia. it was first contested at the 1993 federal election. the seat is currently a safe labor seat. it has previously been held by leo mcleay, a former speaker of the australian house of representatives.

there was previously another division of watson (1934-69), located in the south-eastern suburbs of sydney, however that division is not connected to this one except in name.

members.



external links.

  (pdf, 175 kb);








</doc>
<doc id="1911206" title="ratoath" nonfiltered="811" processed="798" dbindex="821">



ratoath (irish: r\e1th t\f3) is a rapidly expanding town in south east county meath, ireland.in the 1996 census, the population was recorded as 1,061. in the 2002 census, this showed a 257.6% increase to 3,794. this was the largest percentage increase in ireland. the broad meadow (an gabhair in irish) flows through the town.

just outside the town is the horse racing track, fairyhouse racecourse where the irish grand national is held.

ratoath gives its name to a village, a townland, a parish and to a barony. the derivation or meaning of the word is uncertain. two alternative irish forms are cited: r\e1th-t\f3gh and r\e1th-t\e1bhachta. these placenames occur in irish manuscripts and scholars say that the writers were referring to ratoath. evidently they were trying to give a phonetic rendering of a name that was unfamiliar to them. mruigtuaithe occurs in the book of armagh as the name of one of these places in meath where st patrick founded a church and eoin macneill identifies it as ratoath. if this is correct it would seem that the second portion of the word comes from the irish word tuath which means a territory belonging to a family or sept. mruig means a grazing plain. r\e1th is the irish for a fortified mound or a motte.

 the barony of ratoath .

the barony of ratoath comprises ten parishes and portion of two others viz rathbeggan, dunshaughlin, kilbrew, crickstown, killegand, cookstown, donaghmore, ratoath, and portions of ballymaglasson and trevit. there is an historical explanation as to how ratoath became a barony.

the normans landed in ireland in 1169 and captured the danish city of waterford. it is likely that the only cities or strongholds in the country at the time were those founded by the danes, and of these the most important was dublin, which was captured soon afterwards by milo de cogan and successfully held by him in spite of a long siege by ruaidhr\ed mac tairdelbach ua conchobair, the high king of ireland, who had the co-operation of the danes. henry ii of england arrived in dublin in 1172 and many of the irish chieftains made their submission to him, i.e., they recognised him as their feudal lord, who gave them the right or title to the lands they held. in other words, henry applied to ireland the norman or feudal system of land tenure which prevailed on the continent and which the normans introduced into england. this meant displacing some of the native kings   one of whom was the king of meath or tara.

henry granted hugh de lacy  the land of meath in as full a measure as murchadh \d3 maoilsheachlainn or anyone before or after him held it.  the technical name of this grant was a liberty and it meant that, within his liberty, de lacy s power of jurisdiction was equal to that of the king himself with one reservation, that the king could dispose of church lands anywhere. the person enjoying such liberal delegation of royal jurisdiction was known as a count and the territory over which he ruled was called a county. one of the privileges of a count palatinate, such as de lacy in this case, was that he could create barons or inferior lords who held their land from the count. some time after 1196, the son of hugh de lacy, named walter, granted  the whole land of rathtowth  to his younger brother, hugh. hence we have now the sub-division of the county meath named the barony of ratoath and it has the distinction of being perhaps the first instance that the term, barony, was used in ireland for a division of a county.

it is likely that it was this second hugh de lacy who erected that large moat that stands out so prominently adjacent to the catholic church in the village. the site was well chosen. the summit commands a view of most of the barony. it had all the other characteristics of the typical norman fort   a keep. bailium, fosse, etc. the normans had to defend themselves in a new country that was thinly populated and almost without roads. they set up their own courts to administer justice and keep the peace. as in england, the native population in the area made no resistance. it was not so along the borders where the native kings raided the norman territory just as they raided and were raided by their neighbours. before long ratoath was well inside the norman territory and it was not necessary for them to build a stone castle for defence such as they erected at duleek, slane, dunshaughlin, etc. it may have been this hugh de lacy too, that erected the first church in ratoath as the site in the old cemetery was just then right by norman practice. on the other hand, the fact that s patron is the most holy trinity suggests either as earlier foundation, as the normans usually dedicated their churches to our blessed lady or to one of the saints, or that they borrowed the title from an existing church in the neighbourhood.

as the head or chief centre of a barony, ratoath enjoyed a certain prestige. the local  baron  must have lived here at one time. ratoath was chartered for the holding of fairs and markets at an early period and it had its  portreeve  (local magistrate) and all the usual officials. the courts were held here also and had  its manor house where manorial courts were held up until 1830.  this is now the nursing home. so, too, ratoath sent representatives to parliament in dublin, not that the ordinary people had any voice in their selection. it was an example of what was called a  rotten  borough, belonging to or in the patronage of some family and usually sold to the highest bidder, e.g. in 1775 ratoath was represented by sir marcus croftin and william irwin, was married to mr lowther s daughter of kilrue. (see ratoath (parliament of ireland constituency))

external links.
sports and clubs
ratoath chess club* ;
ratoath harps football club*;
ratoath gaa club ;
ratoath rugby club;
ratoath scout group;
community
ratoath community centre;
ratoath parish website;
meadowbank hill residents association;
ratoath pedestrians blogspot;
schools and colleges
ratoath national schools;
ratoath college;

see also.
  list of towns in the republic of ireland;



</doc>
<doc id="1074761" title="george kistiakowsky" nonfiltered="812" processed="799" dbindex="822">


george bogdan kistiakowsky (november 18, 1900   december 7, 1982) was a chemistry professor at harvard who participated in the manhattan project. born in kyiv, ukraine, he attended private schools in kyiv and moscow until the russian revolution broke out in 1917. he was imprisoned by the bolsheviks but later escaped to germany, where he received his p.h.d in 1925. he joined the manhattan project in 1944, replacing seth neddermeyer as head of the implosion department. under his leadership came the complex explosive lenses needed to compress the plutonium sphere uniformly to achieve critical mass.

external links.
annotated bibliography for george kistiakowsky from the alsos digital library for nuclear issues;
online biography from los alamos national laboratory;
















</doc>
<doc id="1006863" title="gay lisp" nonfiltered="813" processed="800" dbindex="823">

a gay lisp is actually not a lisp but refers to stereotypical speech attributes assigned to and sometimes seen in gay males.. these attributes have proven difficult to define and quantify but seem independent of other variables in the phonology of the english language such as accent and register.

characteristics.

several speech features are stereotyped as markers of gay male identity: careful pronunciation, wide pitch range, high and rapidly changing pitch, breathy tone, lengthened fricative sounds, and pronunciation of  as  and  as  (affrication).

the "gay sound" of some, but certainly not all, gay men seems to some listeners to involve the characteristic "lisp" involving sibilants (, , , and the like) with assibilation, sibilation, hissing, or .
 
professors henry rogers and ron smyth at the university of toronto investigated this question and were curious why someone would subconsciously adopt this way of speaking, especially at an early age when such an imitation can cause so many personal problems in a homophobic culture.
according to rogers, people can usually differentiate gay- and straight-sounding voices based on certain phonetic patterns. "we have identified a number of phonetic characteristics that seem to make a man s voice sound gay," says rogers. their best hunch so far is that some gay men may be subconsciously imitating certain female speech patterns and if this is true, "we want to know how men acquire this way of speaking."
a study at stanford university involving a small sample group investigated claims that people can identify gay males by their speech and that these listeners use pitch range and fluctuation in deciding.  results were inconclusive:although he found that listeners could distinguish gay from straight men, he failed to find any convincing empirical differences in pitch between these two groups.  this study is representative of others that have failed to find concrete differences in the speech of gay and straight men.
in a similar study of female speakers, it was found that listeners could not tell lesbian speakers from heterosexual speakers.  other studies of lesbian identity do make references to voice use by lesbians typically using lower pitch and more direct communication styles.

 see also .
 gaydar;
 lgbt stereotypes;
 lisp;
 swish (slang);

references.


 external resources .
encyclopedia article on "gay speak";
economist article on sounding gay;
beyond lisping: code switching and gay speech styles;
male voices and perceived sexual orientation: an experimental and theoretical approach;






</doc>
<doc id="6522344" title="esp eclipse-iifm" nonfiltered="814" processed="801" dbindex="824">


esp eclipse-iifm is a guitar model distributed by esp.



</doc>
<doc id="3416238" title="comanche campaign" nonfiltered="815" processed="802" dbindex="825">


the comanche campaign (1867 1875) was a series of conflicts that took place throughout the border regions of colorado, kansas, new mexico, and texas, between the arapaho, comanche, kiowa, and northern cheyenne tribes of native americans and the united states army and white settlers.

references.
 ;

see also.
 indian campaign medal;








</doc>
<doc id="4744271" title="the hunt for xavier" nonfiltered="816" processed="803" dbindex="826">
the hunt for xavier is a controversial x-men storyline that ran in the fall of 1998. it is considered by many to be one of the worst x-men storylines ever written and is considered by many to be a jump the shark moment for the x-men franchise, which until that point had gone through a period of intense popularity.  



plot .
the x-men attempt to find the location of professor xavier, who has been missing ever since the authorities arrested him in the wake of the onslaught disaster. their quest for him leads them once again into the path of cerebro, the mutant detecting device used by the x-men which has now gained sentient life. this time, it has gained a new form, as opposed to mimicking charles xavier and creating a team of fake x-men. cerebro has begun kidnapping mutants left and right to "catalogue" them and has begun targeting members of the newly reformed brotherhood of evil mutants, who reveal to have xavier as their prisoner/reluctant mentor. 

the x-men split in two as they are joined by the young mutant nina, who was xavier's fellow prisoner during his time in jail. as they find out the location of cerebro's lair, cerebro nonsensically changes his entire plan to not cataloging mutants but cataloging (ie digitalizing and storing) all humans on earth, hence bringing about a perverted version of a mutant utopia for xavier.  

while the x-men distract cerebro and his drone units, nina restores xavier's mental powers (which were deactivated by onslaught) and together, they force cerebro to mindlink with all of humanity. experiencing all the individual souls of humanity causes cerebro to stop his evil scheme and literally fade away into oblivion. xavier agrees to return home with the x-men, reuniting the team with their mentor.

controversies.
"the hunt for xavier" was the start of a dark period for the x-men franchise, as editors mark power and bob harras began taking an almost iron-cladded control over the two core x-men books, effectively writing the books themselves and forcing the actual writers to essentially write dialogue for the two's extensively detailed storyline outlines while at the same time, having to take full credit (or blame in this case) for powers and harras's storylines. 

joe kelly and steven t. seagle refused to do this and were extremely furious that their plans for the series (which included the return of phoenix) were being summarily rejected in favor of the storyline ideas of their editors. the two writers tried desperately to find some sort of compromise, but when they were told not only that they could not use jean grey but also would be forced to bring gambit back (a character that seagle and kelly had no interest in writing), they saw the writing on the wall and resigned from the book at the time that the two writers reluctantly began work on the storyline. 

the hunt for xavier was critically bashed by readers who disliked the uneven artwork from adam kubert and chris bachalo and nonsensical script, which included such nonsensical and contradictory elements such as cerebro's motives changing mid-storyline. many fans also were critical of the "new" brotherhood of evil mutants; rather than portrayed as a group of villains capable of holding their own, the team was comprised of third and fourth string x-men villains who were treated as jokes (even after xavier was forced to train them). most notably, the portrayal of toad as being borderline mentally retarded angered many fans who remembered toad's earlier portrayal as a charismatic and fully capable leader for the previous incarnation of the brotherhood of evil mutants early on in the 1990s.

 read order .
part 1   uncanny x-men #362

part 2   x-men (2nd series) #82

part 3   uncanny x-men #363

part 4   x-men (2nd series) #83

part 5   uncanny x-men #364

part 6   x-men (2nd series) #84



</doc>
<doc id="6680648" title="wright v. houston independent school district" nonfiltered="817" processed="804" dbindex="827">
wright v. houston independent school district was a 1972 american legal case where students on the houston independent school district in houston, texas sued the school district to prevent the district from teaching evolution and from adopting textbooks that incorporated evolution on the basis that they believed it inhibited their right to free excise of religion and established a state religion in violation the establishment clause of the us constitution.  the united states district court for the southern district of texas, houston division found that:

"plaintiffs' case depends in large measure upon their demonstrating a connection between "religion," as employed in the first amendment, and defendants' approach to the subject of evolution. the court is convinced that the connection is too tenuous a thread on which to base a first amendment complaint.

the students appealed the case to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit, where the earlier decision was affirmed.

 external links .

 http://www.talkorigins.org/faqs/wright-v-hisd1.html;







</doc>
<doc id="777379" title="the mutton birds" nonfiltered="818" processed="805" dbindex="828">

the mutton birds is a band from new zealand formed in 1991 by don mcglashan, ross burge, and david long. 

history.
all three members came into the band with experience: mcglashan came from blam blam blam and the front lawn, guitarist long had played in the six volts and burge had played in the spines and sneaky feelings. burge was also playing in dribbling darts alongside the mutton birds. they gained bassist alan gregg, also from dribbling darts in 1992 and recorded their first self-titled album. it went platinum in new zealand and gained them notice outside college radio, notably for a cover of wayne mason's "nature" - originally recorded by mason in 1970 with the fourmyula and subsequently voted in 2002 as new zealand's greatest song of the previous 75 years. the mutton birds debut album remained on the charts for over a year. 

for their second album, salty, they signed with emi australia. it was self-produced and mixed by tchad blake. again the album went platinum in nz but received little notice beyond australia and new zealand. 

their next album, nature, was a collection of songs from their first two cds with production assistance from neil finn, released by virgin records. 

their third proper cd, envy of angels, was recorded in wales and released in 1996 worldwide. it sold typically well in australia and new zealand, and sales increased from those of nature in the rest of the world.  this year also saw the mutton birds' contribution to the soundtrack of peter jackson's film the frighteners with a remake of blue \d6yster cult's 1976 classic "(don't fear) the reaper". the band now moved to the united kingdom where they would remain based until 2000.

as they began touring, david long quit, replaced by chris sheehan. two self-released cds followed, angle of entry (an acoustic live album) in 1997 and too hard basket (subtitled b sides and bastards it contained various rarities) in 1998 as the band looked for a record company. by 1999, alan gregg had decided to leave the band. he was replaced by tony fisher for their latest cd, rain, steam, and speed which was also released independently.  another independently released live album (live in manchester) was issued in time for the 2000 uk tour.  a greatest hits collection called flock was released in 2002. 

 discography .

featured appearances.
the group have appeared on many compilations since the inception in new zealand.  the following is a list of these albums that have featured tracks by the headless chickens.

 (1999) - the best beer drinking songs in the world (emi) - nature;
 (2001) - live at helen's (festival mushroom records) - pulled along by love;
 (2001) - 100% kiwi rock (warner music) - dominion road;
 (2002) - nature's best (sony music) - dominion road;
 (2002) - absolute bliss (festival records) - dominion road;
 (2002) - nature's best 2 (sony music) - anchor me;

singles.


references.
 dix, john, stranded in paradise, penguin, 2005. isbn 0-14-301953-8;
 eggleton, david, ready to fly, craig potton, 2003. isbn 1-877333-06-9;
 spittle, gordon, counting the beat, gp publications, 1997. isbn 1-86956-213-5;

external links.
the mutton birds official homepage;
a religion of a kind - the mutton birds and beyond;
don mcglashan's official homepage;



</doc>
<doc id="4222221" title="david bower" nonfiltered="819" processed="806" dbindex="829">
david bower (1969-) is a deaf actor who is best known for his role as david, the younger brother of charles, in the comedy four weddings and a funeral. born in north wales, he is also a sign dancer and choreographer.

filmography.
casualty (television program) - "it's good to talk" (1998) episode - kevin healy;
hetty wainthropp investigates (television program) - "eye witness" (1996) episode -   malcolm stone;
four weddings and a funeral (1994) - david;
shatter dead (1994) ;
external links.
;
four weddings and a funeral at disability films;
signdance collective david bower's u.k based company;









</doc>
<doc id="7473541" title="list of ship launches in 1956" nonfiltered="820" processed="807" dbindex="830">
the list of ship launches in 1956 includes a chronological list of all ships launched in 1956.


|}

 see also .






</doc>
<doc id="2452925" title="helga estby" nonfiltered="821" processed="808" dbindex="831">
 
 helga estby and her 19-year-old daughter, clara, were norwegian immigrants who tried to save their family farm in eastern washington state in 1896 by walking 3,500 miles across north america in an effort to win a $10,000 prize. on christmas eve, 1896, the new york world reported their arrival in new york city. on arrival in new york the sponsor of the contest refused to pay, saying the women had missed their deadline. helga managed to return to her farm only to find that two of her children had died of diphtheria in her absence. 

helga was considered a deserter of her family and was shunned by the norwegian community. helga went on to become a suffragist and wrote down her story later in her life. her notes were destroyed, but her story was carried on through oral tradition through her family and through newspaper clippings saved by her daughter-in-law.

external links.
bold spirit across america;
yesterday's news: minneapolis newspaper interview from 1897;






</doc>
<doc id="5046684" title="estadio nueva condomina" nonfiltered="822" processed="809" dbindex="832">
estadio nueva condomina is a multi-use stadium in murcia, spain, that is currently under construction.  once completed in 2006, it will be used mostly for football matches and will host the homes matches of real murcia.  the stadium will have a capacity of 33,045 people.  it replaces their current stadium la condomina.

the stadium will be officially opened on october 11, 2006 with a friendly match between spain and argentina.








</doc>
<doc id="1109797" title="heliconiinae" nonfiltered="823" processed="810" dbindex="833">


the heliconiinae, commonly called heliconians or longwings, are a 
subfamily of the butterfly family nymphalidae. they are sometimes treated as a separate family (heliconiidae) 
within the papilionoidea.

heliconians are found mostly in the tropical americas. most species feed on poisonous passiflora vines as larvae, and adults broadcast their acquired toxicity with strong warning colors.

species include:
agraulis vanillae - gulf fritillary;
argyreus hyperbius - indian fritillary;
eueides isabella - isabella's heliconian;
dryas julia - julia heliconian;
heliconius sara - sara longwing;
heliconius charitonius - zebra longwing;
heliconius cydno - cydno longwing;
heliconius erato - red postman;
heliconius hecale - tiger longwing;
heliconius heurippa;

 tribes and genera .
tribe acraeini
acraea;
actinote;
cethosia;
tribe heliconiini
subtribe heliconiina;
agraulis;
dione;
dryadula;
dryas;
eueides;
heliconius;
philaethria;
podotricha;
subtribe argynnina;
argynnis;
argyreus;
argyronome;
brenthis;
childrena;
damora;
fabriciana;
issoria;
speyeria;
subtribe boloriina;
boloria;
clossiana;
proclossiana;
subtribe unknown;
cirrochroa;
cupha;
euptoieta;
kuekenthaliella;
lachnopter;
paduca;
phalanta;
smerina;
terinos;
vagrans;
vindula;
tribe pardopsini
pardopsis;
tribe unknown
altinote;
bematistes;
miyana;

 references .
miller, l. d., and miller, j. y. (2004). the butterfly handbook, p. 130. barron's educational series, inc.; hauppauge, new york. isbn 0-7641-5714-0;
savela, m. (2005). heliconiinae. retrieved september 26, 2005 from 1;

 external links .
 heliconius butterfly website;
 heliconius genomics project;
 information about heliconius;











</doc>
<doc id="3055524" title="daran little" nonfiltered="824" processed="811" dbindex="834">
daran little (born 11 may 1966) is a british writer, most notable for his work as a writer on coronation street from 2000 until 2006.

while at manchester polytechnic, he wrote his dissertation about the show. after graduating, he was taken on by granada television as an archivist in 1988.

he has written numerous books, both fiction and non-fiction, about the show and its characters.

daran left granada in 2006 after writing 95 episodes of the street and introducing the first gay characters. he created, wrote and produced a 20-part series called  for mersey television. he announced on his myspace site in november 2006 that the series had not been recommissioned.









</doc>
<doc id="5603193" title="the second hundred years (film)" nonfiltered="825" processed="812" dbindex="835">


the second hundred years is a 1927 short comedy film starring laurel and hardy as convicts making an escape from prison. their heads were shaved for their appearance in this film, and their hair had not yet grown back in their roles in max davidson's call of the cuckoo (1927), released a week after this film. 

 see also .
 1927 in film;
 laurel and hardy films;

 external links .
;









</doc>
<doc id="7313036" title="banning municipal airport" nonfiltered="826" processed="813" dbindex="836">








banning municipal airport  is a public airport located one mile (1.6 km) southeast of banning, serving riverside county, california, usa. the airport is mostly used for general aviation.

 facilities .
banning municipal airport covers 141 acres and has one runway:
 runway 8/26: 5,200 x 150 ft. (1,585 x 46 m), surface: asphalt;

 references .
;


 external links .







</doc>
<doc id="2029132" title="cfgo (am)" nonfiltered="827" processed="814" dbindex="837">


cfgo is a canadian radio station, which broadcasts at 1200 on the am dial in ottawa. the station broadcasts sports programming, using the brand name the team 1200.

history.
music format.
the station was launched in 1964 by confederation broadcasting, with the call letters ckpm. it originally broadcast at 1440 am. 

in 1970, the canadian radio-television and telecommunications commission revoked confederation's licence, alleging that the company had failed to live up to its financial and management obligations. confederation appealed to the supreme court of canada, who ruled in april, 1971 that confederation had not had a fair hearing before the crtc.

in 1972, majority interest in the station was sold to baton broadcasting. the station also adopted its current cfgo callsign that year.  the station moved to its current frequency (with a better signal, from 1440am to 1200am) in 1986, and was sold to rawlco communications the following year. playing starship's we built this city as the inaugural song on the new 1200khz (1200am) transmitter, rawlco transitioned the station from top 40 to adult contemporary as "go-am 12, adult rock." in 1988, rawlco converted the station back to a chr format, using the brand name energy 1200. the station subsequently changed its callsign to cjbz and its brand name to buzz 1200.

all-sports format.
in 1998, the station switched to its current all-sports format, using the brand name osr1200 - ottawa sports radio. it was acquired the following year by chum limited, reverting to its cfgo callsign.  in 1999, the station adopted the current team 1200 brand name. 

in 2001, the station formed the basis for chum's short-lived national sports radio network, the team, which adopted the ottawa station's brand identity.  the station retained its format and brand when chum subsequently folded the network.

the team 1200 broadcasts a wide variety of sports programming, as well as news and weather, and the station streams fox sports radio at night. as the official radio station of the ottawa senators, it broadcasts every ottawa senators game live. the station also broadcasts ottawa 67's and ottawa lynx games.

external links.
official site;
cfgo format history;







</doc>
<doc id="129312" title="hope and glory" nonfiltered="828" processed="815" dbindex="838">




hope and glory is a 1987 film which tells the story of a boy growing up in the blitz in london during world war ii.  the film is a semi-autobiographical account of writer/director john boorman's early life.  it stars sebastian rice-edwards, geraldine muir, sarah miles, david hayman and sammi davis.

it was nominated for academy awards for best art direction-set decoration, best cinematography, best director, best picture and best writing, screenplay written directly for the screen.

description.
seen through the eyes of a young boy, the 'fireworks' provided by the blitz every night are as exciting as they are terrifying. his family do not see things in quite the same way as the bombs continue to drop, their will to survive brings them closer together. the nightly raids do not provide the only drama, however, as his sister falls for a canadian airman and finding her life turned upside down,, soon discovers how valuable family is.

'hope and glory' paints a picture of a world riven by conflict and yet united in resistance to the creeping tide of war that seems to be marching ever closer.

external links.
 ;


















</doc>
<doc id="6616828" title="almadenejos" nonfiltered="829" processed="816" dbindex="839">
almadenejos is a municipality in ciudad real, castile-la mancha, spain. it has a population of 550.







</doc>
<doc id="3883221" title="higham town f.c." nonfiltered="830" processed="817" dbindex="840">
higham town f.c. are a football club based in higham ferrers, northamptonshire, england. they joined the northamptonshire league in 1897. for the 2005-06 season, they are members of the united counties football league division one.









</doc>
<doc id="108472" title="air force academy, colorado" nonfiltered="831" processed="818" dbindex="841">
air force academy is a census designated place (cdp) in el paso county, colorado, united states.  the cdp incorporates a large portion of the grounds of the united states air force academy, including the cadet housing facilities.  the cdp population was 7,526 at the u.s. census 2000.  the usaf academy post office (zip codes 80840 and 80841) serves the area.

geography.

air force academy is located at  (38.990440, -104.860674).

according to the united states census bureau, the cdp has a total area of 26.0 km\b2 (10.0 mi\b2), all land.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 7,526 people, 1,128 households, and 1,112 families residing in the cdp.  the population density was 290.0/km\b2 (750.9/mi\b2).  there were 1,238 housing units at an average density of 47.7/km\b2 (123.5/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the cdp was 83.55% white, 5.75% african american, 0.80% native american, 2.83% asian, 0.25% pacific islander, 3.07% from other races, and 3.75% from two or more races.  8.69% of the population were hispanic or latino of any race.

there were 1,128 households out of which 82.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 90.2% were married couples living together, 5.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 1.4% were non-families. 1.3% of all households were made up of individuals and none had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 3.60 and the average family size was 3.62.

the age distribution is 24.2% under the age of 18, 49.2% from 18 to 24, 24.4% from 25 to 44, 2.0% from 45 to 64, and 0.1% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 21 years. for every 100 females there were 191.6 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 235.8 males. all these statistics are typical for military bases.

the median income for a household in the community was $43,417, and the median income for a family was $43,264. males had a median income of $7,307 versus $15,464 for females. the per capita income is $11,088. the unusually low income figures can be explained by the presence of 4,000 air force academy cadets in the community. despite the low income figures, only 2.8% of the population and 3.2% of families were below the poverty line; most of the population of the community are academy students who receive full scholarships, including meals, from the federal government. out of the total population, 3.6% of those under the age of 18 and none of those 65 and older were living below the poverty line.

external links.
united states air force academy


references.









</doc>
<doc id="2066310" title="hoppy the marvel bunny" nonfiltered="832" processed="819" dbindex="842">

hoppy the marvel bunny is a comic book superhero, an anthropomorphic pink rabbit. he was created by chad grothkopf (1914 - 2005) in 1942, and originally published by fawcett comics as a funny animal spin-off of their popular captain marvel character, and got his own comic book in 1945. his actual superhero name is captain marvel bunny (or simply marvel bunny), and his mild-mannered alter-ego is referred to simply as hoppy.

hoppy is now owned by dc comics, and has made periodic appearances in captain marvel-related stories. he also appeared in the oz-wonderland war alongside captain carrot and his amazing zoo crew. hoppy was lampooned in a short featured on the dvd release of the incredibles. 

powers and abilities.

hoppy has powers roughly similar to those of captain marvel. he accesses his powers by yelling "shazam!" but his pantheon differs. his patron deities are salamander, hogules, antlers, zebreus, abalone and monkury.













</doc>
<doc id="8921627" title="rahi foundation" nonfiltered="833" processed="820" dbindex="843">
the rahi (recovering and healing from incest) foundation is a support centre, based in new delhi, india. it is the only centre of its kind in the country that specializes in working with adult women survivors of incest and childhood sexual abuse and offers services that are uniquely important to their recovery process.

the foundation was established in august 1996 on the basis of the prestigious fellowship for population innovations of the john d. and catherine t. macarthur foundation received by anuja gupta, director of rahi.

the centre is dedicated to providing individual and group services for survivors aimed at their psychological, emotional, sexual and spiritual recovery. rahi offers its consultation and supervision to other individual and groups working with incest survivors. it works closely with individuals and organisations interested in starting survivor groups in other parts of the country. it is involved in conceptualising and planning stages and offers clinical supervision and guidance for the running of the group. rahi also provides individual supervision to practitioners and other ngos on their incest cases.


</doc>
<doc id="6181247" title="michael gaughan" nonfiltered="834" processed="821" dbindex="844">


michael gaughan (march 24, 1943 in omaha, nebraska) is a casino owner and operator in las vegas, nevada.  michael is the son of jackie gaughan and the owner of a nascar race team.  brendan gaughan his son is the driver for his nascar team.

 bibliography .
early on michael showed his interest in racing when he won the 1966 mint 400 race.  he went on to win other races.  his continued interest continues to today with orleans motorsports which he founded in 1999.

after many roles in casinos, including various ownership roles, michael opened the barbary coast hotel and casino in 1979.  that became the foundation for coast casinos.

michael gaughan airport slots, the name for the slot operations at mccarran international airport, is owned by michael.

in 2004, michael sold coast casinos for $1.3 billion to boyd gaming.  in july of 2006, boyd gaming announced that it was selling the south coast to michael for an estimated $576 million.  the casino was built at a cost of $600 million. having opened on december 22, 2005 this was still the most recently opened casino in the las vegas metropolitan area until the red rock station casino opened.

 sources .
las vegas review-journal;
las vegas sun;







</doc>
<doc id="1348779" title="banbridge town f.c." nonfiltered="835" processed="822" dbindex="845">
banbridge town is a northern ireland football club playing in the ifa intermediate league. the club, founded in 1947, hails from banbridge, county down and plays its home matches at crystal park. club colours are red, black, and sky blue.  the current manager is michael lamont. 

 club honours .

irish league 'b' division champions: (1);
1955/56;

george wilson cup winners: (1);
1976/77;

ifa intermediate cup winners: (1);
1985/86;

louis moore cup winners: (2);
1955/56, 1967/68;

mid-ulster cup winners: (4);
1948/49, 1958/59, 1973/74, 1979/80;

bob radcliffe cup winners: (1);
1980/81;

alan wilson memorial cup winners: (1);
1986/87;

 external links .
banbridge town fc website;
ground hopper's tour of crystal park;


 

 





</doc>
<doc id="130405" title="texanna, oklahoma" nonfiltered="836" processed="823" dbindex="846">
texanna is a census-designated place (cdp) in mcintosh county, oklahoma, united states. the population was 2,083 at the 2000 census.

geography.
texanna is located at  (35.350928, -95.532556).

according to the united states census bureau, the cdp has a total area of 103.7 km\b2 (40.0 mi\b2). 103.4 km\b2 (39.9 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.3 km\b2 (0.1 mi\b2) of it (0.25%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 2,083 people, 928 households, and 668 families residing in the cdp. the population density was 20.1/km\b2 (52.2/mi\b2). there were 1,763 housing units at an average density of 17.0/km\b2 (44.1/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the cdp was 82.14% white, 0.67% african american, 12.43% native american, 0.10% asian, 0.19% from other races, and 4.46% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 1.10% of the population.

there were 928 households out of which 20.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 60.1% were married couples living together, 8.2% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.0% were non-families. 25.5% of all households were made up of individuals and 13.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 2.24 and the average family size was 2.65.

in the cdp the population was spread out with 19.3% under the age of 18, 4.8% from 18 to 24, 20.4% from 25 to 44, 30.6% from 45 to 64, and 25.0% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 49 years. for every 100 females there were 95.4 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.7 males.

the median income for a household in the cdp was $27,653, and the median income for a family was $31,314. males had a median income of $30,494 versus $15,875 for females. the per capita income for the cdp was $17,433. about 11.4% of families and 14.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 13.6% of those under age 18 and 13.9% of those age 65 or over.

external links.





</doc>
<doc id="670042" title="meriden, west midlands" nonfiltered="837" processed="824" dbindex="847">


meriden is a village and civil parish in the solihull borough of the west midlands in england. it is located midway between birmingham and coventry, approximately 5 miles away from birmingham international airport. the surrounding countryside, known as the meriden gap, forms a narrow green belt between the two cities. in the 2001 census, the population of the meriden parish was 2,734.

it is possibly the site of an iron age field system.  the village claims to be at the very centre of england, and a 500-year-old (some sources say 200-year-old) sandstone pillar-shaped monument to that effect stands in the village green. this medieval village cross is a grade ii listed artifact. recent analysis by the ordnance survey  has suggested that the true geographical centre of england is a farm situated some 18 kilometres to the northeast, in leicestershire, though most people still credit meriden with the honour. here the heart of england way long distance path wends its way and fittingly brings the staffordshire heathlands together with the cotswolds and arden forest.

meriden is also home to a memorial to all the cyclists who died in the first world war. an annual event, at which thousands of cyclists pay their respects to their fallen colleagues and commemorate these deaths, is held in the village. the memorial was unveiled on 21 may 1921, in the presence of over 20,000 cyclists.

some moated farmsteads and several timber framed buildings can be seen in the village. 

meriden used to be home to a large triumph motorcycles factory, which moved from coventry during world war ii, but which closed in the early 1980s. the company is now based in hinckley in leicestershire.

the village was the location of a fatal dangerous driving incident involving footballer lee hughes, and was at one time home to the largest british advertising agency outside of london.

external links.
;
cyclists' memorial;
the heart of england way association;
;
;
;



</doc>
<doc id="5655919" title="ocala historic commercial district" nonfiltered="838" processed="825" dbindex="848">



the ocala historic commercial district is a u.s. historic district (designated as such on june 3, 1999) located in ocala, florida. it encompasses approximately 90 acres, and is bounded by 1st street northwest, 1st avenue southeast, 2nd street southwest, and 1st avenue southwest. it contains 20 historic buildings.

external links.
 ;







</doc>
<doc id="1363008" title="maryland gubernatorial elections" nonfiltered="839" processed="826" dbindex="849">
the following is a list of past elections for the position of governor of maryland.

winners are in bold and incumbents are denoted by stars.

election years.
2002.
robert l. ehrlich / michael s. steele (r) - 879,592 (51.55%);
kathleen kennedy townsend / charles r. larson (d) - 813,422 (47.68%);
spear lancaster / lorenzo gaztanaga (l) - 11,546 (0.68%);

1998.

 parris n. glendening / kathleen kennedy townsend (d)* - 846,972 (55.17%);
 ellen sauerbrey / richard d. bennett (r) - 688,357 (44.83%);


1994.

 parris n. glendening / kathleen kennedy townsend (d) - 708,094 (50.21%);
 ellen sauerbrey / paul rappaport (r) - 702,101 (49.79%);


1990.

 william donald schaefer / melvin steinberg (d)* - 664,015 (59.77%);
 william shepard / lois shepard (r) - 446,980 (40.23%);


1986.

 william donald schaefer / melvin steinberg (d) - 907,291 (82.37%);
 thomas j. mooney / melvin bilal (r) - 194,185 (17.63%);


1982.

 harry r. hughes (d)* - 705,910 (61.99%);
 robert pascal (r) - 432,826 (38.01%);


1978.

 harry r. hughes (d) - 718,328 (70.98%);
 j. glenn beal, jr. (r) - 293,635 (29.02%);


1974.

 marvin mandel (d)* - 602,648 (63.50%);
 louise gore (r) - 346,449 (36.50%);


1970.

 marvin mandel (d) - 639,579 (65.73%);
 c. stanley blair (r) - 314,336 (32.30%);
 robert woods merkle, sr. (american) - 19,184 (1.97%);


1966.

 spiro agnew (r) - 455,318 (49.50%);
 george mahoney (d) - 373,543 (40.61%);
 hyman pressman (i) - 90,899 (9.88%);


1962.

 j. millard tawes (d)* - 428,071 (55.64%);
 frank small, jr. (r) - 341,271 (44.36%);


1958.

 j. millard tawes (d) - 485,061 (63.55%);
 james patrick devereux (r) - 278,173 (36.45%);


1954.

 theodore r. mckeldin (r)* - 381,451 (54.46%);
 harry clifton byrd (d) - 319,033 (45.54%);


1950.

 theodore r. mckeldin (r) - 369,807 (57.28%);
 william preston lane, jr. (d)* - 275,824 (42.72%);


1946.

 william preston lane, jr. (d) - 268,084 (54.73%);
 theodore r. mckeldin (r) - 221,752 (45.27%);

1942 and earlier.
results of previous elections not available.;

references.
maryland state board of elections ;



</doc>
<doc id="4287432" title="ian frank bowater" nonfiltered="840" processed="827" dbindex="850">
lt.-col. sir ian frank bowater gbe dso td ostj (16 december 1904 1 october 1982) was lord mayor of london from 1969 to 1970.

bowater was the youngest son of sir frank bowater, 1st baronet (lord mayor from 1938 to 1939) and was educated at eton and magdalen college, oxford. on 10 december 1927, he married ursula dawson (a daughter of the doctor to the british royal family, bertrand dawson) and they had four children.

bowater later fought in world war ii with the royal artillery (territorial army), for which he was awarded the dso and td. he later became sheriff of london in 1965 and lord mayor from 1969 to 1970 and was knighted upon his retirement.


















</doc>
<doc id="3865824" title="pride and joy" nonfiltered="841" processed="828" dbindex="851">
"pride and joy" is the second track on stevie ray vaughan's debut album texas flood. it is a blues song and is one of his most famous tracks. parts of the solos are from "live another day".  stevie wrote this song for his wife at that time, lenora.  but she thought it was written about a former girlfriend of his, so he wrote another song for her, lenny.

external links.
live performance - el mocambo, 1983.
 "pride and joy" lyrics;






</doc>
<doc id="4896067" title="pennsylvania coal co. v. mahon" nonfiltered="842" processed="829" dbindex="852">

pennsylvania coal co. v. mahon, 260 u.s. 393 (1922), was a case in which the supreme court of the united states held that whether a regulatory act constitutes a taking requiring compensation depends on the extent of diminution in the value of the property, and thereby established the doctrine of regulatory taking and the dimunition-of-value test, in contrast to later tests, such as the permanent physical occupations test (loretto v. teleprompter manhattan catv corp.), the nuisance-control measures test (hadacheck v. sebastian), and the total takings test (lucas v. south carolina coastal council).  additionally, the case was one of the first to address the denominator problem with regard to regulatory taking.

parties.
 plaintiff/respondent : h.j. mahon, owner of surface rights to a parcel of land, et al.
 defendant/petitioner : pennsylvania coal co., owner of mining rights to a parcel of land.
 amici curiae : attorney general of pennsylvania, the scranton, pennsylvania, and the representatives of other extensive interests.

background.
state of law.
a 1921 act of the commonwealth of pennsylvania known as the kohler act prohibited the mining of anthracite coal in such way as to cause the subsidence of, among other things, any structure used as a human habitation, with certain exceptions including when the miner owned such habitation and the underlying coal is more than one hundred and fifty feet from an improved property belonging to any other person.
facts of case.
in a 1878 deed, the pennsylvania coal co. granted to h.j. mahon the surface rights to a parcel of land, but retained the mining rights to the land, and mahon accepted any risk from, and waived all claim for damages resulting from, mining below the property.  pennsylvania coal provided notice to mahon that it planned to mine for coal under the mahon's habitation.
prior history.
mahon sued in the court of common pleas to enjoin pennsylvania coal from conducting mining, but the court denied the injunction.  the supreme court of pennsylvania reversed, and granted an injunction.
procedural posture.
pennsylvania coal, on writ of error, sought reversal of the supreme court of pennsylvania judgement.

legal analysis.
issue.
the court considered the issues of (1) whether the kohler act as applied to the property in question constitutes an exercise of the police power, requiring no compensation, or of eminent domain, requiring compensation; and (2) whether the act in general constitutes an exercise of the police power or of eminent domain.
arguments/theories.
 court of common pleas : the statute on which the claim is based is an unconstitutional taking, and is prohibited.
 supreme court of pennsylvania : the defendant had property and contract rights that would be damaged, but the statute is a legitimate exercise of the police power.

rule of law.
the court ruled that whether a regulatory act constitutes a taking requiring compensation depends on the extent of diminution in the value of the property.
holding.
the court held that (1) the kohler act as applied to the property in question constitutes an exercise of eminent domain, requiring compensation; and (2) the act in general constitutes an exercise of eminent domain.
reasoning.
the court argued as follows: (1) the damage done by the activity prohibited by the act is a private, not a public nuisance; there is no public safety justification for the statute, as notice before mining would suffice to protect public safety.  on the other hand, the damage done by the statute is significant, insofar as it abolishes an estate in land a very valuable estate and a binding contract.  (2) the statute, in general, purports to extinguish the mining rights to properties under surfaces owned by the public and the government.  the statute makes prohibitively expensive the mining of coal in these areas, and thereby effectively destroys the right.  the rights of the public to its streets and other property are rights paid for.  if the representatives of the public have been so shortsighted as not to pay for the mining rights of the land as well, there is no authority to grant those rights without compensation.  (if the land above required compensation, so therefore does the land below.)

notable concurring and dissenting opinions.
 brandeis, j., dissenting. : justice brandeis argued as follows: every restriction upon the use of property entails a deprival of some right of the owner, but this can be justified by the police power.  in this case, the police power applies insofar as the kohler act prohibits a noxious use.  if the noxious use is removed, the restriction will have to be removed.  the fact that the restriction benefits a particular party is irrelevant.  additionally, the dimunition-of-value test is flawed because value is so relative, and cannot be determined by a court of law.  it raises unanswerable questions:  how much value is required, and compared to what?   the overall value of the land?  and if public safety is imperiled, neither grant, nor contract, can prevail against the exercise of police power.  as for the applicability of the law to other properties, especially public properties, notice will not sufficiently protect public safety.

result.
judgment/disposition.
supreme court of pennsylvania judgment reversed.
subsequent history.
unknown.
legacy and other notes.


references.







</doc>
<doc id="2315156" title="uptown, memphis" nonfiltered="843" processed="830" dbindex="853">
uptown memphis is a neighborhood located near downtown memphis, tennessee. at one time, elvis presley lived in a small government housing project in this area which has since been renovated into a nicer apartment complex. st. jude children's research hospital and the pinch district are located in the general vicinity.

 	uptown was established in the 1840 s by the greenlaw brothers.  partners in the establishing of uptown were robert looney, john and isaac saffarans and e.t. keel.  streets were paved with cobblestone with granite curbs, and were lined with sycamore trees.
 	prominent memphis families built large stately homes in the area.
 	by 1865, blue collar workers began to build smaller homes alongside these homes creating an economically diverse community
 	ethnic diversity was the norm.  immigrants from germany and ireland moved into the area, as did jewish immigrants from europe.
 	because of this, the area now-know as greenlaw attracted mostly northeastern and mid-western families, giving the area its own distinctive culture.

 timeline: .

1870   greenlaw and chelsea annexed into memphis 
1912   the mississippi river floods greenlaw and stops construction of big homes for the affluent.
1920 s   political power players begin to move out.  greenlaw begins to lose political muscle.
1930 s   government begins to bulldoze older mansions and in many cases leaves empty lots
1940    phillip belz begins industrial development in n. memphis; the neighborhood begins to attract blue collar workers and african americans.  bars, liquor stores and juke joints tarnish the family friendly atmospheres.
1950 s  - in an effort to attract more white residents, mha builds an all white housing development called hurt village.
1960 s   racial tensions are at a high due to the sanitation strike and assassination of mlk.  most whites who live in hurt village leave the area.
late 60 s   present   most businesses close and industries also close; non-profit groups seek ways to assist the mainly african american residents left in the area.
2000   memphis is awarded the hope vi grant for demolition of hurt village.
present   uptown is currently becoming a mixed community that is rich in culture and people.  






</doc>
<doc id="6112048" title="barry knight (referee)" nonfiltered="844" processed="831" dbindex="854">
barry knight was an established premiership referee before a series of poor performances saw him relegated to the football league. he was the man who sent andy welsh of sunderland afc off against liverpool at anfield in the most bizarre circumstances. he also was the referee in duty the day which lee bowyer and kieron dyer of newcastle united fought during a match and both were sent off by knight.

english football clubs




</doc>
<doc id="1577183" title="w-vhs" nonfiltered="845" processed="832" dbindex="855">
w-vhs is a high definition analog video tape format created by jvc.  the format was introduced in 1994 and is no longer supported; the tapes are no longer manufactured and no players are currently produced for this format.

the recording medium of w-vhs is a 12.7 mm ( -inch) magnetic metallic tape stored in a cartridge the same size as vhs.  the tape can be used to store 1080i or 480i analog signals (but not 480p or 720p).  audio is stored in the vhs hifi or s-vhs digital audio formats.

since w-vhs tapes are harder to find many people have been using the similar digital-s (d-9) tape. while d-9 are still not that easy to find they are more available than w-vhs tapes in certain regions. jvc professional even recommend the use of them for w-vhs. the runtime between w-vhs and digital-s are not the same. a digital-s tape with a a length of 64min is approx 105min or so.












</doc>
<doc id="3916477" title="dutch nationality law" nonfiltered="846" processed="833" dbindex="856">


dutch nationality law is based primarily on the principle of jus sanguinis. in other words, citizenship is conferred primarily by birth to a dutch parent, irrespective of place of birth. 

in general, children born in the netherlands to foreign parents do not acquire dutch citizenship at birth.

the netherlands nationality act was significantly amended with effect from 1 april 2003.

birth in the netherlands.

birth in the netherlands confers dutch citizenship only if:  
 the child and one of the parents are residents of the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba, and 	 ;
 at the time of birth of that parent, one of his or her parents was a resident of one of these countries.

descent from a dutch parent.

a person born on or after 1 january 1985 to a married dutch father or mother, or an unmarried dutch mother, automatically acquires dutch citizenship at birth.   it is irrelevant whether the child is born in the netherlands or in another country.

a child born to an unmarried dutch father and a non-dutch mother must be acknowledged by the dutch father before birth, in order for the child to be dutch at birth.  before 1 april 2003, an acknowledgement could be given after birth. details.   

a child born to an unmarried dutch father on or after 1 april 2003 (and a non-dutch mother) who is not acknowledged before birth may subsequently acquire dutch citizenship through the option procedure.

before 1985, it was generally not possible to acquire dutch citizenship by descent from a dutch mother.   the exception applies to persons born a person born before 1985 with only a dutch mother, where the person is born in the netherlands and would otherwise be stateless.

acquisition of dutch citizenship by option.

the option procedure is a simpler and quicker way of acquiring dutch citizenship compared to naturalisation.  in effect, it is a form of simplified naturalisation.

in order to be eligible for the option procedure, it is necessary to hold a dutch residence permit and belong to one of the following categories:

 the person is of age, born in the netherlands and has lived in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba continuously since birth. ;
 born in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba, and lived there for an uninterrupted period of at least three years and since birth the applicant has not had a nationality (i.e. the person is stateless). ;
 the person is of age and has legally lived in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba since age four. ;
 the person is of age, a former dutch citizen and has lived in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba for at least one year on the basis of a permanent residence permit or a residence permit for a non-temporary residence objective. ;
 married to a dutch citizen for at least three years and has legally lived in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba for an uninterrupted period of at least 15 years. ;
 aged 65 or over and has legally lived in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba for an uninterrupted period of at least 15 years. ;
 a minor, are acknowledged by a dutch citizen who has been cared for and brought up by this dutch citizen for an uninterrupted period of at least three years.
 a minor who, as a result of a court decision or by law at the time of your birth, is under the joint custody of a non-dutch father or mother and another person who is a dutch citizen. since the start of this custody the person has been cared for and brought up by this dutch citizen for a period of at least three years and since then has also had a principal place of residence in the netherlands.

applicants for dutch citizenship through the option procedure do not have to renounce any foreign citizenship they hold.

naturalisation as a dutch citizen.

an application for dutch citizenship by naturalisation must meet all the conditions below: 

 aged 18 or over;
 holder of a permanent resident permit;
 5 continuous years residence in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba with a valid residence permit. there are a number of exceptions to this rule. ;
 sufficiently integrated in dutch society and are able to read, write, speak and understand dutch.   this must normally be proved by taking a naturalisation test.   successful completion of an eligible integration course is an alternative. ;
 in the four years preceding the application, the applicant has not been given any custodial sentence, training order, community service order or high monetary penalty. ;

exemptions to the residence requirement.

the 5 year residence requirement may not apply where the applicant falls into any of the following categories:

 a person adopted after majority in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba by parents at least one of whom has dutch nationality. ;
 married to or are the registered partner of a dutch man or woman. if this is the case, the person can submit an application for naturalisation after 3 years of marriage or registered partnership and cohabitation. if the person has cohabited in the netherlands with a dutch man or woman (both partners unmarried) for an uninterrupted period of 3 years, an application may also be submitted.
 the 5-year term is reduced to a 3-year term if the applicant is stateless.
 the 5-year term is reduced to a 3-year term if the applicant as a minor is acknowledged or legitimised by a dutch national and has been cared for and brought up by this dutch national for a period of 3 years.
 the 5-year term is reduced to a 2-year term if the applicant has legally lived in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba for a period of 10 years, the last 2 of which uninterruptedly.  ;
 a former dutch citizen. in some cases the applicant will instead be able to use the option procedure.

exemptions to the requirement to renounce foreign citizenship.

an applicant for naturalisation does not have to give up his current nationality in the following cases: 

 where the original nationality is automatically lost upon naturalisation as a dutch citizen ;
 the legislation of the applicant's country does not allow renunciation of nationality. ;
 the person is married to or the registered partner of a dutch national. ;
 recognised refugees ;
 born in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba, and still living there at the time of application. ;
 where the person has lived in the netherlands, the dutch antilles or aruba for an uninterrupted period of 5 years or longer before age 18. ;
 where the applicant cannot be expected to contact the authorities in the country of which they are a national.
 where the applicant has "special and objectively assessable reasons" for not renouncing his existing nationality. ;
 where in order to give up his current nationality the applicant must pay a large sum of money to the authorities in his or her country or fulfil military service obligations. this must be demonstrated in each case.
 where renunciation of the applicant's existing nationality would cause "serious financial losses" (for example, inheritance rights).   this must be demonstrated.

local expat bulletin boards, though, say that the immigration ministry has largely undermined these exceptions, either by imposing barriers so high that no one reaches them, or by using secondary obstacles to prevent would-be applicants from getting dutch nationality.

children.

children aged under 18 may be added to a parent's application for dutch citizenship.   those aged 16 and 17 will only be naturalised if they give their active consent, while those aged 12-15 inclusive are given a chance to object.

loss of dutch citizenship.

dutch citizens may lose their citizenship through long residence outside the netherlands, or acquisition of a foreign nationality.   in addition, in some cases it is possible to be deprived of dutch citizenship.

residence outside the netherlands.

the dutch law has contained for many years provisions that removed dutch citizenship from certain dutch persons who held another nationality at birth and remained resident outside the netherlands in adulthood.

prior to 1985.

before 1 january 1985, dutch citizens lost their nationality in cases where they were born outside the kingdom of the netherlands, lived for an uninterrupted period of ten years outside the kingdom after reaching the age of majority (then 21) and did not submit notification that they wished to retain their dutch nationality before the ten-year period was up. 

these provisions affected dutch citizens born abroad before 1 january 1954

from 1 january 1985 to 31 march 2003.

under the 1985 legislation, dutch citizens born outside the netherlands who also held the nationality of the country of their birth lost dutch citizenship if they lived in the country of their birth for 10 years after age 18 (and were still citizens of their country of birth).

those who were issued a dutch passport or proof of dutch citizenship on or after 1 january 1990 are deemed never to have lost dutch citizenship.   this exemption was put in place on 1 february 2001.

former citizens who were not issued a dutch passport or proof of dutch citizenship in 1990 or later were given a limited period of time to acquire dutch citizenship by option.   these provisions expired on 31 march 2005.

from 1 april 2003.
after 1 april 2003, dutch citizens with dual nationality may lose their dutch nationality if they reside outside the kingdom of the netherlands or outside the european union for a long period. the place of birth is irrelevant in this event.

if you hold the same foreign nationality alongside dutch nationality for ten years, and you are resident outside the kingdom of the netherlands and the european union for ten years, you will lose your dutch nationality.

in the case of dutch citizens who possessed dual nationality on 1 april 2003 and who were then resident outside the kingdom of the netherlands and the european union, the ten-year period started on 1 april 2003.

it is possible to retain dutch citizenship by: 

 having a principal residence in the kingdom of the netherlands or another member state of the european union for at least one year; or;
 applying for a dutch passport or proof of dutch nationality before 1 april 2013, i.e. before the end of the ten-year period. a new ten-year period starts on the day the person is issued with a passport or proof of dutch nationality.

acquisition of another citizenship.

a person who acquired another citizenship before 1 april 2003 automatically lost dutch citizenship.

from 1 april 2003, loss of dutch citizenship upon naturalisation in another country is still automatic unless one of the following exemptions applies:

 the person is born in the country of the other nationality and has a principal residence there at the time of acquisition of that nationality.
 if before turning 18, the person has had a principal residence in the country of the other nationality for an uninterrupted period of five years;
 if you are married to a person who possesses the nationality you wish to acquire (a spouse who is deceased does not count).

the exemption does not apply in the case of acquisition of austrian, belgian, norwegian, danish or luxembourg citizenship.   this is due to the provisions of the convention on the reduction of cases of multiple nationality which the netherlands became party to in 1985.  details

deprivation of dutch citizenship.

dutch citizenship by naturalisation may be withdrawn if it was procured by fraud, or if the naturalised dutch citizen does not renounce a foreign citizenship as per the requirements for naturalisation.

dutch citizenship may also be revoked in the case of service in a foreign army at war with the netherlands.

resumption of dutch citizenship.

former dutch citizens who hold permanent resident permits and have resided in the kingdom of the netherlands (netherlands, netherlands antilles or aruba) for at least 1 year may regain dutch citizenship through the option procedure.

where the person is not resident in the kingdom of the netherlands, the person must have lost dutch citizenship after reaching the age of majority and through the acquisition of another citizenship.   in addition one of the following conditions must be satisfied:

 born in the country whose nationality was acquired and living there at the time of acquisition of the nationality of that country, or;
 before turning 18, lived in the country whose nationality was acquired for an uninterrupted period of at least five years, or;
 at the time of acquisition of the nationality of the other country, the person was married to someone who possessed that nationality.

these criteria are similar to the criteria for exemption from loss of dutch citizenship in place since 1 april 2003.   the application opting for dutch nationality may be submitted up to 31 march 2013 (i.e. 10 years from the 2003 change in the law).

dual citizenship.

although dutch law restricts dual citizenship, it is possible for dutch citizens to legally hold dual citizenship in a number of circumstances, including:

 those who acquire another citizenship at the time of birth (for example, a child born to dutch parents in the united states would hold both u.s. and dutch citizenship).
 persons who acquire dutch citizenship through the option procedure (including former dutch citizens resuming citizenship);
 persons who become naturalised dutch citizens, who obtain an exemption from the requirement to renounce their foreign citizenship, such as those married to dutch citizens.
 dutch citizens who naturalise in another country who are exempted from the loss of nationality rule (such as those married to a citizen of that country).

in all cases the other country must allow dual citizenship in that particular situation.

the moves to restrict dual nationality have been supported by the current government of j.p. balkenende. this policy has always been justified on the basis of  strengthening ties to the netherlands  of new passport holders. while balkenende has said that the rest of europe would be following the netherlands  example, they re not. more countries are, in fact, allowing dual nationality or liberalizing laws on the basis of including legal residents into local society.

while balkenende wants people to be part of dutch society with only one passport, immigrants do not seem to share the sentiment. only 13,000 adults became dutch in 2004, according to the country's statistics office. this represents a decline of 83% over the total naturalizations in 1997. those becoming dutch were predominantly turkish, moroccan, afghan, surinamese or from the former yugoslavia.
 
on the other hand, the number of dual nationals in the country has risen from 400,000 in 1997 to nearly one million now. the restrictions on dual nationality have not worked at all, and it seems that those asking for it are largely those who qualify for dual nationality under the current law.
 
immigrants are choosing, in fact, not to become dutch at all, nor do they have  heightened loyalty  to their country of residence. in this regard, the policy of the current government towards dutch nationality has to be seen as an abysmal failure.

former territories.

before independence, dutch citizenship was held by many persons in suriname and indonesia.   in general, those acquiring citizenship of these countries at independence lost their dutch citizenship.   a request for determination of citizenship status should be addressed to the dutch authorities in case of doubt.

dutch citizenship statistics.

figures from the dutch government show that approximately 11,500 people were granted dutch citizenship by naturalisation in the first 6 months of 2003.   there were close to 20,000 applications. details

however, there is undeniably an extreme downwards trend in those foreign residents of the netherlands who are bothering to apply for local nationality. 

according to the country's statistics office details, nearly 21 thousand people were granted dutch nationality through naturalisation in 2004 (13,000 adults and 8,000 children at the same time). this is 4 thousand fewer than in 2003 and half the number in 2002.

external links.

 dutch nationality, ministry of foreign affairs;
 dutch citizenship: summary of dutch citizenship law.
 dutch nationality, embassy of the netherlands, ottawa;
 obtaining dutch nationality, dutch immigration and nationality directorate;
 article: the steep and thorny way to naturalisation day, a testimony by sueli brodin in crossroads ;




</doc>
<doc id="1228152" title="wet season" nonfiltered="847" processed="834" dbindex="857">

a wet season or rainy season is a season in which the average rainfall in a region is significantly increased.  the term green season is also sometimes used as a euphemism by tourist authorities.

these terms are commonly used describing the weather in the tropics.  tropical weather is dominated by the movement of the tropical rain belt, which oscillates from the northern to the southern tropics over the course of the year.

the tropical rain belt lies in the southern hemisphere roughly from october to march, and during this time the southern tropics experience a wet season, in which rain is common.  typically, days start off hot and sunny, with humidity building during the day and culminating in large thunderstorms and torrential rain in the afternoon or evening.  from april to september, the rain belt lies in the northern hemisphere, and the northern tropics experience their wet season.

the rain belt reaches roughly as far north as the tropic of cancer and as far south as the tropic of capricorn.  near these latitudes, there is one wet season and one dry season annually.  on the equator, there are two wet and two dry seasons as the rain belt passes over twice a year, once moving north and once moving south.  between the tropics and the equator, locations may experience a short wet and a long wet season. local geography may also substantially modify these climate patterns.

video footage.
 wet season in bamako;


see also.
aklet;
itcz;
dry season;
monsoon;
monsoon trough;

















</doc>
<doc id="7392058" title="henry hecksher" nonfiltered="848" processed="835" dbindex="858">
henry hecksher was a career united states intelligence officer who served in both the oss and cia.

hecksher was born in hamburg, germany. he emigrated to the united states in 1938. he joined the united states army, achieving the rank of captain. hecksher took part in the normandy invasion, and was wounded in antwerp.

he later became an intelligence officer with the army and interrogated some of the top nazi leaders, including julius streicher. he joined the oss and in 1946 became head of its counterintelligence section in berlin. later, this section would become the cia's berlin operating base aka "bob." hecksher would eventually work under cia station chief william harvey at "bob."

alongside cia officers like harvey and david atlee phillips, hecksher became heavily involved in illegal cia black operations, or "black ops", including the berlin tunnel project and the coup d'etat of chilean president salvador allende gossens in 1973.

in reporter dick russell's 1992 biography of nagell, "the man who knew too much", nagell referred to hecksher as "bob".

hecksher died in 1990 from complications of parkinson's disease.




</doc>
<doc id="1707416" title="oxenholme lake district railway station" nonfiltered="849" processed="836" dbindex="859">


oxenholme lake district railway station is a railway station in oxenholme, near kendal in cumbria. the station is situated on the west coast main line and is also the start of the windermere branch line to windermere. 

the station has a buffet on the northbound platform.

as of august 2006, the car parking charge was \a36.00 for the first 24 hours.

the station serves as a main line connection point for kendal, and is managed by virgin trains.  on may 27, 2006 the station was the scene of a murder when a young man was stabbed aboard a glasgow-paignton train.

external links.











</doc>
<doc id="1742661" title="freedom force vs. the third reich" nonfiltered="850" processed="837" dbindex="860">


freedom force vs the third reich is a computer game developed and published by irrational games. in this sequel to freedom force, the player guides a team of superheroes as they travel back in time and help overthrow nazi germany and its allies during world war ii. it was released in early march, 2005.

plot.

nuclear winter steals time master's inert body and uses it to steal nuclear missiles from the cuban missile crisis in an effort to start a nuclear war between the united states and the ussr. freedom force foils his plot, but on the return trip, the timeline changes and freedom force finds that the axis powers achieved victory in world war ii. using the disturbance in the timeline to guide them, mentor projects the heroes back in the timestream to battle the villainous blitzkrieg, who created the timeline disturbance, where they meet and team up with heroes of that age. in the course of blitzkrieg's defeat, alchemiss gains powers from time master's body, frees man-bot from the celestial clock, but goes insane over the sudden expansion of her powers and becomes entropy, who threatens time and space. entropy is eventually defeated. briefly asserting her original personality, alchemiss prevents herself from ever existing so she cannot become entropy, but suddenly finds herself face to face with a strange being...energy x.

characters.
heroes.
old.
virtually the entire cast of characters returns from freedom force, now steady members of the superhero team, their skills and backgrounds intact. the exception is man-bot, who is imprisoned in the celestial clock.

new.
 tombstone - nathan graves was framed for the murder of his own wife by his neighbor. shocked and devastated, he never spoke in his own defense during his trial and was sentenced to die in the electric chair. at the moment of graves' execution, energy x hit the power line and traveled into his body. not quite living and not quite dead, he gained electrical and spirit-based powers. as tombstone, he still wears the execution hood placed over his head in the electric chair and has adopted a sinister gunslinger-like appearance, complete with six-guns and belt buckle adorned with skulls. tombstone has a hollow, echoing voice and is grim and humorless. he has cold-based melee attacks and a ranged attack where his dual pistols shoot electricity from his execution. however, his most distinctive ability is possession: temporarily taking complete control of a victim while his own body fades into an intangible state.  he is reminiscent of the punisher and ghost rider in his determination to wreak vengeance on criminals.
 the bard - harry holmes loved the works of william shakespeare so much, it consumed his life. when his obsession caused his true love to leave him, harry threw his lute in frustration, accidentally striking a canister of energy x. he was granted powers echoing his passion for shakespeare: singing hypnotic odes and throwing fiery "yorick" skulls.  ;
 green genie - jani al-hajani was cruelly held prisoner by her own father, a powerful sheik, and forced into an arranged marriage with a man she'd never met. her elderly servant and friend mustaffa attempted to help her escape, but her father's goons began torturing the old man for information on jani's whereabouts. the young woman shielded mustaffa with her own body when she was struck by energy x. the bolt transformed her into a green-skinned, flying-carpet riding genie of legend, who is sometimes more concerned with having fun than fighting evil. though she is nothing like him personality wise, she is similar to the green goblin in that she is a green 'goblin' like creature riding around on a magic carpet 'glider'.
 quetzalcoatl - johny azotl's grandfather took him to the patriot city museum every year to look back at the past. as the tale of the staff of quetzalcoatl, an ancient aztec god, was told, johny became impatient and left his grandfather alone because he was not interested in the past. he headed for the roof to let some steam out, but a burglar passed by him without being noticed. suddenly, a gunshot was fired inside the museum, and johny overheard it and went to check it out. johny then finds his grandfather fatally wounded. the burglar pushed aside johny with the staff of quetzalcoatl in his possession and without a second thought, johny pursued the burglar to apprehend him, and caught up with the burglar. as johny and the burglar struggled for the staff, a beam of energy x hit the staff and the burglar, surprised by the beam, released the staff. as the staff glowed, so did johny, and johny felt the power of energy x and an ancient power. then, johny glowed with a golden aura and transformed into the quetzalcoatl. quetzalcoatl then summoned a giant snake and apprehended the burglar. quetzalcoatl may be present, but johny still exists within him in spirit form. as quetzalcoatl approached johny's grandfather, he felt sad, which he is not familiar. for the first time ever, the god cried, and a tear drop fell upon the elder, somehow reviving him. from then on, quetzalcoatl vows to fight crime as if his presence in patriot city is fate's decision. he seems to be reminiscent of marvel's thor, or dc's captain marvel in that he is a kid who gains god-like abilities. he's not much of an attacker, but he can heal and temporarily revive fallen allies. this formative scene clearly echoes the creation of spider-man, whose uncle (ben), dies in a similar manner.
 black jack - jack st. john spade was a british inventor working in her majesty's institute for wartime research during world war ii. he wanted to fight on the front lines as a soldier, but professor o'toole, his mentor, insisted that england couldn't afford to lose his abilities in combat. working late one night, spade discovered that o'toole was being tricked by blitzkrieg into creating a weapon capable of destroying the entire raf. when spade tried to intervene, blitzkrieg paralyzed his legs to keep him out of the way. desperate to keep the final secrets of the weapon from the enemy, spade coated a playing card with his newest creation, a combination of acid and poison, and flung it into o'toole's throat. shunning the desk job that had kept him from combat, spade equipped himself with guns and gadgets of his own invention and fought the nazi menace as black jack. like the other world war ii-era heroes, his abilities are not energy x-based. in addition to his pistol and punching attacks, he throws acid-dipped cards and blinding grenades and uses "decoys" to fool enemies. black jack speaks with a marked british accent and colorful phrases ("let's get these jerry blighters!"). at the end of the second game, he return to the 1940s, which he sees as a more peaceful time.  he is vaguely similar to pulp heroes like the avenger.
 tricolour- sabrine tricolette was a french fencing champion. after she won a gold medal in the 1936 olympic games in berlin, blitzkrieg brainwashed her. sabrine became a nazi henchman, arresting resistance fighters in vichy france. while sabrine was supervising the execution of a group of rebels she had apprehended, one of them began to sing the french national anthem. when she tried to silence him, she saw the tricolored french flag on his scarf. this reminder of her beloved country shattered the hold that blitzkrieg held over her. she became tricolour, dedicated to freeing her homeland from the nazis who had invaded it. she and bullet seem to be very attracted to each other. like black jack, tricolour has no energy x-related powers. her abilities are based on her fencing skills, including fairly powerful melee attacks and a blinding light from her rapier.
 sky king- ace gunner was an actor known for playing sky king, a nazi-bashing movie hero. meek and shy, he saw that his costar charmaine was interested in the "real heroes" (soldiers) rather than his pretend hero. eager to prove his courage and win charmaine's love, ace began trying to modify his movie-prop jetpack to enable him to actually fly. he had no luck, but got his chance at heroics when a nazi spy stumbled onto the set and held charmaine at gunpoint. although he couldn't fly, ace managed to save the actress by hurling himself at the nazi with the help of his jetpack. hailed as a hero, ace decided to leave hollywood and become the sky king for real. a huge fan of sky king while growing up, bullet helps his hero alter his jetpack to fly. (interestingly, bullet knows how to do this from an old issue of a comic book featuring sky king. see predestination paradox and ontological paradox.) his abilities all come from his armored costume, which unfortunately also makes him very slow on foot. his attacks include chain guns and a "blast-off" area damage ability. his manner of speaking is similar to that of jimmy stewart, hollywood actor and air force pilot.  his creation was probably influenced by the commander cody serials of the 1940s;

supervillains.
 nuclear winter - formerly a soviet agent named sukhov, nuclear winter was transformed by energy x into a being made of ice and dedicated to the destruction of his capitalist enemies. nuclear winter possesses strong melee attacks and ice-based projectiles, but is physically slow due to his icy temperament. nuclear winter travels in time to launch missiles from the cuban missile crisis in an effort to start a nuclear war between the united states and the ussr. after his plan was foiled, he further mutated into an ice giant before being stopped by freedom force.
 red oktober - a mysterious soviet witch with magical and illusionary powers to match mentor. she first fought against freedom force under the command of nuclear winter in an attempt to bring nuclear 'destrucktion' to the united states. when she finds out that nuclear winter's plans are to actually transform the world (including mother russia) into a nuclear wasteland where only he would survive, oktober switches sides and fights with freedom force to defeat nuclear winter. she disappears shortly after the battle vowing victory for the soviets.
 time master - this mysterious creature holds sway over the power of time itself. in the first game, he kidnapped man-bot to use as a living power source in his scheme to control the celestial clock, so that he can stop time itself (and his aging). after his defeat, he was given to us authorities in a dormant state. in this game, he is awakened once more and is used to fight entropy. after entropy's defeat, he is defeated once more by freedom force; however, having the ultimate power over all time, he seems certain to resurface.
 blitzkrieg - this nazi mentalist has powerful mind-control abilities. disguised as "charles wilson", deupty director of the cia, he tricked freedom force into turning over time master to his custody after they defeated nuclear winter. blitzkrieg used time master's powers to bring energy x to the nazis in the 1940s and thereby win world war ii for the axis. his exact origin is never explained. blitzkrieg has a vague superficial resemblance to adolf hitler, but with a monocle, pencil-style mustache and grotesquely elongated head adorned with throbbing veins.  visually similar to marvel comics the leader, although super-nazi red skull is an obvious analogue as well.
 red sun - blitzkrieg exposed a japanese officer to energy x, creating this strange deja vu-like villain. seemingly a single individual in his first encounter with black jack, red sun is actually an army of identical warriors who seem to share a consciousness. their abilities include a sword attack, hurling fiery shurikens, and the ability to summon explosive fire elementals. when one instance of red sun is killed, the rest gain his strength. red sun expresses a strict code of honor in battle, announcing themselves before attacking and thanking freedom force for the honor of dying in battle with them. unlike deja vu, there does not seem to be one "original" or primary person controlling all the others.  ;
 fortissimmo - an italian opera singer of questionable ability given energy x powers by blitzkrieg, fortissimo can fly and emit powerful sonic attacks. he employs men costumed as roman centurions as his henchmen. when first encountered, he is trying to destroy significant cultural artifacts such as the original gutenberg bible, the summa theologiae, and shakespeare's first folio. freedom force also encounters fortissimo when traveling further back in time in an attempt to disable blitzkrieg's force-field generator, and in the "present", when fortissimo is brought forward by entropy to destroy culturally relevant buildings in patriot city. in this final encounter, he is eaten by a dinosaur statue animated by entropy.  perhaps influenced by the fiddler and other musical golden age supervillains.
 entropy - entropy is the fusion of alchemiss and chaotic forces. in order to help the time-lost heroes, mentor encourages alchemiss to draw upon more of her powers than ever before, and even tap into the vast reserves of the near-comatose time master. the combination gives her near-infinite abilities and corrupts her mind. she decides to free man-bot, whom she has always been drawn to, from the celestial clock where he was imprisoned at the end of the first game. he warns her that his presence is all that keeps the chaos wraiths at bay, but she refuses to listen and transports him back to earth. shortly thereafter, she is touched by one of the chaos wraiths and becomes entropy. entropy begins to tamper with the fabric of reality and tells man-bot that if he doesn't join her, she won't be able to hold things together; she claims that every known reality will be destroyed. time master and freedom force team up temporarily to defeat her, but of course time master attempts to betray the heroes as soon as entropy seems to be helpless. freedom force seemingly best time master; however, as the master of all time, he is constantly at his strongest. as he prepares to destroy man-bot completely, alchemiss briefly regains control over entropy and attacks time master with chaos wraiths. knowing that she cannot suppress entropy for long, alchemiss realizes the only course of action is to erase herself from ever existing. accepting and expecting oblivion, she is surprised to find a mysterious figure before her, glowing with power. the stranger tells her in an alien voice that of all the gifted ones, she is the only one to ever surprise him. when alchemiss asks who he is, he replies that he is energy x. the game ends on this cryptic note. there are several noteworthy similarities between the alchemiss/entropy plot and marvel comics' phoenix/dark phoenix/jean grey storyline.

external links.
 freedom fans: official freedom force site;
 moby games entry on freedom force vs. the third reich;
 freedom reborn: "freedom force" and "freedom force vs. the third reich" fan site;






</doc>
<doc id="2082709" title="isaac asimov's treasury of humor" nonfiltered="851" processed="838" dbindex="861">
isaac asimov's treasury of humor is a book of "640 jokes, anecdotes, and limericks, complete with notes on how to tell them".

isaac asimov was one of the most prolific writers in the past century, known for his many science fiction and non-fiction works.  his 'guide' series is one of his scholarly contributions to the world's understanding of literature. for instance, asimov's guide to shakespeare and asimov's guide to the bible, both prominent in this series, are reliable and easily understood guides which are still used in college level courses on both subjects.

along with these serious works, he also maintains a human quality; one which he lets run free in isaac asimov's treasury of humor and its sequel, asimov laughs again. in these two books, he tells a broad variety of jokes from puns to ethnic, from limericks to anecdotes.

what makes these books surpass many of their contemporaries is that he explains what is funny to the jokes, and gives tips on how to tell them. he talks about the effect of the jokes on different audiences, and the personal touches that you can add to make the joke your own.

treasury of humor is unique in that in addition to being a working joke book, it is a treatise on the theory of humor, propounding asimov's theory that the essence of humor is an abrupt, jarring change in emphasis and/or point of view, moving from the crucial to the trivial, and/or from the sublime to the ridiculous.

publication data.
treasury of humor: a lifetime collection of favorite jokes, anecdotes, and limericks with copious notes on how to tell them and why ;
1971, houghton mifflin (hardcover), isbn 0-395-12665-7;
1979, houghton mifflin (paperback) isbn 0-395-28412-0;
1991, reprinted as isaac asimov's treasury of humor (paperback) isbn 0-395-57226-6;
1992, asimov laughs again: more than 700 jokes, limericks, and anecdotes, harper paperbacks 1993 reprint (paperback) isbn 0-06-092448-9;



</doc>
<doc id="9284188" title="new zealand cricket team in pakistan in 1955-56" nonfiltered="852" processed="839" dbindex="862">
the new zealand cricket team toured pakistan in the 1955-56 season

external sources.
cricketarchive

references.
 association of cricket statisticians and historians - various publications;
 playfair cricket annual ;
 wisden cricketers almanack 2006  ;













</doc>
<doc id="225658" title="1721 in literature" nonfiltered="853" processed="840" dbindex="863">
see also: 1720 in literature, other events of 1721, 1722 in literature, list of years in literature.

events.
john cleland becomes a pupil at westminster school.
francis atterbury is arrested for plotting against the hanoverian monarchy.

new books.
penelope aubin - the strange adventures of the count de vinevil and his family;
charles de secondat, baron de montesquieu - lettres persanes (persian letters);

new drama.
colley cibber - the refusal ;

non-fiction.
emanuel swedenborg - prodromus principiorum rerum naturalium  ;
jonathan swift - the drapier's letters;

births.
 march 19 - tobias smollett, scottish physician and author (died 1771) ;
 november 9 - mark akenside, poet (died 1770);
december 27 - fran\e7ois hemsterhuis, moral philosopher (died 1790);
date unknown;
william collins, poet (died 1759);
johann silberschlag, theologian (died 1791);

deaths.
january 3 - juan n\fa\f1ez de la pe\f1a], historian (born 1641);
august 13 - jacques lelong, french bibliographer (born 1665);
september 18 - matthew prior, british poet and diplomat (born 1664);
december 12 - alexander selkirk, the model for robinson crusoe (born 1676);
date unknown;
charlwood lawton, jacobite author;
 


</doc>
<doc id="6964660" title="bruneau-jarbidge caldera" nonfiltered="854" processed="841" dbindex="864">
the bruneau-jarbidge caldera (sometimes called a supervolcano) is located in present-day southwest idaho.  the volcano erupted during the miocene, between ten and twelve million years ago, spreading a thick blanket of ash in the bruneau-jarbidge event and forming a caldera. animals in the prime of life were suffocated and preserved in ashfall where they stood, or where they collected at a water hole, such as at ashfall fossil beds, located far downwind in northeastern nebraska.

the existence of the event was discovered by prof. mike voorhees, a paleontologist at the university of nebraska state museum, in 1971, at a lagerst\e4tte in orchard, nebraska, the ashfall fossil beds; there, two hundred fossilized rhinoceros remained at a single site, together with the prehistoric skeletons of camels and lizards, horses and turtles, a death assemblage preserved in two meters of volcanic ash. 

by its uniquely characteristic chemical "fingerprint" and the distinctive size and shape of its crystals and glass shards, the volcano stood out among dozens of prominent ashfall horizons laid down in the cretaceous and tertiary of central north america. the event responsible for this fall of volcanic ash was identified at bruneau-jarbidge, 1600 kilometers west in idaho. prevailing westerlies deposited distal ashfall over a vast area of the great plains.

 references .
bbc: "supervolcanoes" program transcript, 3 february 2000;
w. i. rose, c. m. riley, and s. dartevelle, "sizes and shapes of 10-ma distal fall pyroclasts in the ogallala group, nebraska" (pdf file) includes bibliography.
izett, g. a. 1981. "volcanic ash beds: recorders of upper cenozoic silicic pyroclastic volcanism in the western united states." "journ. geophysical res. 86:10, 200 10, 222.





</doc>
<doc id="2912761" title="ahmed f. mehalba" nonfiltered="855" processed="842" dbindex="865">
ahmed fathy mehalba (b. 1973) was a united states air force civilian translator who was convicted of lying to government agents and removing classified documents from the guantanamo bay detention facility. 

childhood and emigration to united states.
born in egypt, mehalba emigrated to the united states and became a naturalized citizen.
mehalba received a medical discharge from the army in may 2001 and was later hired a san diego defense contractor, titan corporation,  to be an arabic-english translator at guantanamo bay.

arrest at logan airport.
in 2003, mehalba was assigned as a civilian interpreter at guantanamo. he was arrested on september 29, 2003, at boston logan airport. mehalba had flown into logan  through italy from cairo, egypt.  on routine admission through customs, mehalba presented a us passport and a us military identification card. when asked about some computer cds, he said that they contained only music and videos he had made while in egypt. one cd was labeled secret. mehalba told inspectors that he did not have any official us government documents.  

mehalba's former girlfriend was u.s. army specialist deborah gephart, who was dishonorably discharged  from the army while a student at the army's counter-intelligence school at fort huachaca, arizona in 2001. gephart had stated that mehalba's uncle was with egyptian intelligence. during his interview at logan airport, mehalba discussed gephart, but denied she was his girlfriend.

espionage charges against mehelba.
mehelba was one of  four people accused of security breaches at the guantanamo bay detention facility. the others were air force enlisted senior airman ahmad al halabi, army captain and muslim  chaplain  james yee,  and army colonel jack farr.

conviction and sentence.
on january 10 2005, mehalba pleaded guilty to lying to government agents and removing classified documents. on february 18 2005, mehalba was sentenced to 20 months in prison, with credit for 17 months, time served. he was released in march, 2005. 

external links.
finer, jonathan  interpreter pleads guilty to taking datawashington post, (january 11, 2005);
 cnn court-martial begins for ex-gitmo interpreter ;
 complaint  .pdf in united states vs. mehelba ;
photo of mehalba washington times;
former civilian translator sentenced to 20 months rantburg (february 18, 2005);





</doc>
<doc id="197204" title="lesser spotted woodpecker" nonfiltered="856" processed="843" dbindex="866">

the lesser spotted woodpecker (picoides minor) is a member of the woodpecker family picidae. it was previously assigned to the genus dendrocopos (sometimes incorrectly spelt as dendrocopus), and often still is, but it appears to be closer related to the downy woodpecker.

the range of the lesser spotted or barred woodpecker is the palearctic region, but several subspecies are recognised.

description.
from its small size and its habit of spending most of its time in the tops of tall trees in woods and parks, this little woodpecker is often overlooked, but if sighted on a trunk it may at once be identified by the broad barring on the wings and narrower bars across the lower back. 

the male has a crimson crown, a brown forehead, a black superciliary stripe, and another from the base of the bill to the neck. the nape and upper back are black, but the lower back is barred with black and white. on the wings are broader and more conspicuous bars, and the outer tail feathers are also barred. the under parts are white with streaks on the flanks. the bill and legs are slate-grey. 

in the female the crown is white, but the young birds of both sexes have more or less crimson on the head. there are no marked seasonal changes. 

ecology.
its habits are very similar to those of the great spotted woodpecker, and it has the same stumpy appearance, almost triangular, when bounding from tree to tree. its note is a repeated "keek", loud for so small a bird, and its vibrating rattle can with experience be distinguished from that of the larger species. this substitute for a song may be heard at all times, but most frequently when courtship begins early in the year. 

its insect food is similar to that of the great spotted woodpecker. when hunting for wood-boring larvae it chips away at the rotten wood, and the litter at the foot of a tree is often the first indication that insects are attacking upper branches. from autumn to spring it hunts mainly on wood-living insect larvae, frequently from thin dead branches in living trees. through the breeding season, surface-living insects from the foliage and bark of trees make up an increased amount of the diet. nestlings are mainly fed with surface-living insects,such as aphids and larval insects. at night it roosts in old holes.

a litter of chips is also a guide to a nesting hole, for the bird does not always carry these away when excavating. the hole is usually at a considerable height above the ground and may be so high as 30 or 40 feet. it is a smaller burrow than that of the great spotted woodpecker, measuring from 1 to 2 inches in diameter. 

the shaft varies, the nesting cavity being often a foot or more below the entrance. five to eight highly polished white eggs are laid upon wood dust and chips in the latter half of may, and a single brood is the rule. both birds help to incubate. occasionally an old or natural hollow is used or enlarged.

populations of lesser spotted woodpeckers are mostly resident, but can be nomadic to some degree. annual fluctations in population numbers are common. the winter temperatures may exhibit a direct effect on winter survival of lesser spotted woodpeckers by heat loss, whereas weather conditions during spring have an indirect effect on breeding performance by affecting food production.

references.
  database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concern;
steen r., sel\e5s v. & stenberg i. 2006. impact of weather on annual fluctuations in breeding numbers of lesser spotted woodpecker dendrocopos minor in norway. ardea 94(2): 225 231. (download article );





















</doc>
<doc id="3791536" title="quebec law" nonfiltered="857" processed="844" dbindex="867">
quebec law is unique in canada because quebec is the only province in canada to have a civil law system. the core areas of the matters of private law that are, incidentally, in the exclusive jurisdiction of the province, such as property, contracts and other forms of civil liability, are codified in its civil code, the civil code of quebec. lawyers in quebec must have a civil law degree and complete a stage (apprenticeship) and a bar admission course before they can practise. criminal law is, however, based on the common law system. see law of canada.

history.
the quebec legal system came into effect with the creation of new france in 1663. under the rule of louis xiv, quebec adopted the custom of paris. the administration of justice was based on the inquisitorial method.

by 1866 quebec adopted the civil code of lower canada, which consisted of four books: 
persons; ;
property and its different modifications; ;
acquisition and exercise of rights of property; ;
commercial law. ;

civil code.
quebec's current civil code, the civil code of quebec, came into force in 1994. it consists of ten books:
 persons ;
 the family;
 successions ;
 property;
 obligations ;
 hypothecs ;
 evidence ;
 prescription;
 publication of rights ;
 private international law ;

see also.
legal systems of the world ;







</doc>
<doc id="3022726" title="dead river (lake county, florida)" nonfiltered="858" processed="845" dbindex="868">
found in lake county, florida, the dead river serves as the division between the cities of tavares and leesburg.  

it received its name due to lack of current, studies have shown that a simple john boat can remain in nearly same position if left on the river overnight with less than five feet of drift.

the dead river connects lake eustis and lake harris.  the only roadway to cross the river is u.s. highway 441 near dead river's southern mouth toward lake eustis.  there are currently two businesses directly on the river: the former dead river vic's, now known as "harbor side" restaurant and a small fueling station and general store (the dead river marina). 

for a historical look at lake county waters, this was writen in the 1930's "amid the slopes and waters of beautiful lake county, are leesburg, eustis, tavares, and mount dora, all possessed of excellent tourist accommodations and such natural and man-made beauty, combined with all sorts of sport advantages, that the sport-loving visitor is thrilled.

bass fishing surpasses anything you have ever known in that line. citrus fruits and other products abound. golf courses are found in every community. as an all-year resort section, this is hard to equal." 

source:
excerpt from "florida: the march of progress" published circa 1930s by the florida department of agriculture, bureau of immigration. 






</doc>
<doc id="8034593" title="aberdeen (amtrak station)" nonfiltered="859" processed="846" dbindex="869">

aberdeen station is an amtrak station in aberdeen, maryland on the northeast corridor and marc penn line.  it is served by amtrak's regional.

external links.

amtrak stations database;
photo at amtrak photo archive;














</doc>
<doc id="2826257" title="kommissionen" nonfiltered="860" processed="847" dbindex="870">
kommissionen, (in english: the commission) is a 2005 swedish tv series airing over 12 episodes.

the series shows stockholm completely destroyed as the result of a terrorist attack against the parliament building.

kommissionen was recorded in 2004 and scheduled for airing on svt in the spring of 2005, but was postponed until the autumn. it was simultaneously released on dvd and as a book.

 selected cast.

 katarina ewerl\f6f - lena lagerfeldt, foreign minister;
 loa falkman - rolf g. johansson, prime minister;
 chatarina larsson - grete ancker;
 helge skoog - sigvard borg;
 g\f6ran gillinger - nils folkesson;
 peter perski - karim mahmoudi;
 cecilia h\e4ll - unni hoffner;
 anna ulrika ericsson - anne petersson;



external links.
 ;
 svt - show page;






</doc>
<doc id="112814" title="new hartford, iowa" nonfiltered="861" processed="848" dbindex="871">
new hartford is a city in butler county, iowa, united states. the population was 659 at the 2000 census. it is the hometown of u.s. senator chuck grassley of iowa.

geography.

new hartford is located at  (42.567189, -92.621435).

according to the united states census bureau, the city has a total area of 1.3 km\b2 (0.5 mi\b2), all land.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 659 people, 270 households, and 196 families residing in the city. the population density was 498.9/km\b2 (1,303.9/mi\b2). there were 275 housing units at an average density of 208.2/km\b2 (544.1/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the city was 98.63% white, 0.15% native american, 0.15% asian, 0.15% from other races, and 0.91% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 1.06% of the population.

there were 270 households out of which 30.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 58.5% were married couples living together, 8.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 27.4% were non-families. 22.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 2.44 and the average family size was 2.87.

in the city the population was spread out with 23.5% under the age of 18, 9.0% from 18 to 24, 26.3% from 25 to 44, 27.6% from 45 to 64, and 13.7% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 38 years. for every 100 females there were 92.7 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 94.6 males.

the median income for a household in the city was $34,750, and the median income for a family was $38,816. males had a median income of $30,909 versus $19,485 for females. the per capita income for the city was $16,771. about 8.2% of families and 9.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 17.1% of those under age 18 and none of those age 65 or over.

external links.







</doc>
<doc id="9391602" title="wayne trace high school" nonfiltered="862" processed="849" dbindex="872">
wayne trace high school is a public high school in haviland, ohio.  it is the only high school in the wayne trace local school district.  their nickname is the raiders.

ohio high school athletic association state championships.
 boys basketball   1991 ;

external links.
 district website;

notes and references.






</doc>
<doc id="1389321" title="e-office" nonfiltered="863" processed="850" dbindex="873">
 
e-office is an abbreviation for  electronic office ,
referring to the ongoing process of eliminating paper
and making all office transactions electronic.

the term is something of a marketing buzzword,
without any specific technical meaning.
it might refer to
the introduction of individual computerized  office  applications,
or to the interconnection of office computers using a lan,
or to the centralization of office functions via web-based applications.

the introduction of e-office functions might be expected to
improve accuracy and efficiency in an organization
and thereby improve its level of service to its customers
(both internal and external),
while theoretically lowering costs
and drastically reducing the consumption of paper.
however, at any given point in time,
it is often found that the promised benefits
of the current generation of e-office systems
have not quite been realized,
that there are still many documents being printed out
and circulated on paper,
and that there are therefore bountiful remaining opportunities for new vendors
to propose yet more new systems
which will finally realize the true e-office revolution.

</doc>
<doc id="4017794" title="mark alan walker" nonfiltered="864" processed="851" dbindex="874">
mark alan walker ph.d. is a research associate in philosophy at trinity college, university of toronto. he is founder and president of permanent end international, a nonprofit organization devoted to ending hunger, illiteracy and environmental degradation. he serves on the editorial board of the journal of evolution and technology and is a fellow of the institute for ethics and emerging technologies. 

dr. walker also teaches at mcmaster university. as of 2006, he teaches informal logic for the arts & science program.
see also.
participant evolution;
perfectionism (philosophy);
transhumanism;

 external link .
permanent end international;






</doc>
<doc id="4807894" title="robert l. wilson" nonfiltered="865" processed="852" dbindex="875">


private first class robert lee wilson (1920-1944) was a united states marine who was posthumously awarded the medal of honor for heroism at the cost of his life on 3 august 1944, in the marianas.

the young marine who died on tinian was awarded our nation's highest award for saving the lives of his comrades by throwing himself on an enemy hand grenade immediately before it exploded in their midst.

robert lee wilson was born on 21 may 1920 in centralia, illinois.  one of eight children, pfc wilson was considered his father's right hand man around the farm, before enlisting in the fall of 1941. "he was one of the best workers i ever saw," the boy's father said when speaking of his 23-year-old son. "none of my boys believed in waiting for the draft. they volunteered," he added.

marine corps service.
wilson enlisted in the united states marine corps on 9 september 1941. he went to chicago then to san diego, california, for recruit training.

he fought in practically every major engagement in the pacific until the day of his death. a presidential unit citation signed by frank knox, secretary of the navy, dated 4 february 1943, was awarded him as a member of the 1st marine division (reinforced), in the solomons in august 1942.

serving with the 2nd marine division (reinforced), pfc wilson received a second presidential unit citation signed by secretary of the navy james forrestal "for outstanding performance of duty in combat during the seizure and occupation of the japanese held atoll of tarawa, gilbert islands, 20-24 november 1943." in addition, pfc wilson received the purple heart with one gold star.

at the time of his death, pfc wilson served with company d, 2nd pioneer battalion, 18th marines, 2nd marine division. 

the medal of honor was presented to his mother at a ceremony held on 26 july 1945, at the american legion cottage in centralia.

private first class wilson was initially buried in the military cemetery on tinian, but was reinterred in hillcrest cemetery, centralia, illinois, in 1948.

medal of honor citation.

the president of the united states takes pride in presenting the medal of honor posthumously to

private first class robert l. wilson
united states marine corps

for service as set forth in the following citation:

for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty while serving with the second battalion, sixth marine division, during action against enemy japanese forces on tinian island, marianas group, on 3 august 1944. as one of a group of marines advancing through heavy underbrush to neutralize isolated points of resistance, private first class wilson daringly preceded his companions toward a pile of rocks where japanese troops were supposed to be hiding. fully aware of the danger involved, he was moving forward while the remainder of the squad armed with automatic rifles closed together in the rear, when an enemy grenade landed in the midst of the group. quick to act, private first class wilson cried a warning to the men and unhesitatingly threw himself on the grenade, heroically sacrificing his own life that the others might live and fulfill their mission. his exceptional valor, courageous loyalty and unwavering devotion to duty in the face of grave peril reflect the highest credit upon private first class wilson and the united states naval service. he gallantly gave his life for his country.

/s/ harry s. truman

posthumous honors.

the gearing class destroyer, uss robert l. wilson (dd-847) was launched on 5 january  1946 and was commissioned on 28 march 1946.  the uss robert wilson earned three battle stars for service during the vietnam war.  she was decommissioned on 30 september 1974.

references.
this article incorporates text in the public domain from the united states marine corps.;
;
private first class robert lee wilson, usmc, who's who in marine corps history, history division, united states marine corps.
medal of honor citation;
robert l.wilson, dictionary of american naval fighting ships.










</doc>
<doc id="3191479" title="neighborhood planning" nonfiltered="866" processed="853" dbindex="876">
in 1915, robert e. park and e. w. burgess introduced the idea of "neighborhood" as an ecological concept with urban planning implications .  since then, many concepts and ideas of a neighborhood have emerged.  milton kolter defines a neighborhood as,   a political settlement of small territory and familiar association, whose absolute property is its capacity for deliberative democracy.   while most neighborhoods are difficult to define geographically, anyone who lives in an urban setting relates to an area that they call their neighborhood. as such, it is a useful level at which to engage in planning practice. 

neighborhood planning deals with a level of planning greater than household size but smaller than that of a city.  in fact, one of the first steps in planning for a neighborhood is to define the boundaries of the neighborhood.  this process can sometimes be problematic.  it becomes difficult when some areas do not want certain streets or houses to be included in their neighborhood boundary.  on the other hand, it can also be a problem if more than one neighborhood district attempts to claim a certain street or group of homes.  two less problematic ways in which to define neighborhood boundaries are by using natural objects like rivers and parks or by dividing up the city using information based on the census report.  if all else fails, public meetings and surveys can help the decision making process. 
 
after the boundaries of the plan are established, officials need to decide how to get the neighborhood involved with the planning process.  most people wrongly assume that a neighborhood plan will be done democratically.  in reality, a city official may do all of the planning with minimal contact or input from the residents.  the plan may also be done by a small, self-selected group of residents who ignore input from others in the neighborhood. either way, without involvement of as many neighborhoods as possible, the outcome may lack critical information and perspectives and thus not fully represent the desires of the neighborhood residents. this may create problems for the community.

 public involvement .

the whole point of neighborhood planning is to understand what individual neighborhoods want to become. to understand this, participation of neighbors is absolutely crucial. in reality, it is only at this level, where the actual number of parties is small, that true democratic decision making may be possible. 

there are many strategies that may be used in order to involve the residents of the neighborhood in the planning process.  one way is to utilize outreach methods in order to get the word out that planning is taking place.  another way to get the neighborhood involved is by colleting data and information about the area and how the residents use it.  a third method is to actually have residents assist in the work for the planning process.  a true democratic neighborhood plan includes all three methods.

outreach methods include five different techniques that may be used to inform the neighborhood that planning is taking place.  the first type of method is personal contact and includes door-to-door visits and phone calls.  this method is the most personalized, making it the most effective.  it can also be the most time consuming.  in order to cut back the time, it is suggested that a phone tree is used when personal calls take place and flyers be created to put on doors of houses that are visited.

the second type of method that can be used is the media.  this method includes both the printed and electronic media.  many newspapers and radio stations will run a press release or public service announcement (psa) if they receive the information in the proper time and form.  if this does not work, an add spot in the paper or electronic media can usually be purchased. 

the third form of outreach methods are field office/ drop-in centers.  this involves having an actual place where members of the neighborhood can drop by and learn about the planning process (usually outside of a high traffic, high density area).  these centers need to have an individual available to answer questions that neighbors may have.  this is also a great opportunity to provide residents with surveys that would gather more information to assist the planners.

the fourth outreach method involves utilizing existing organizations as a way to inform residents on the planning process.  this method can use varying strategies to accomplish its goal.  one way is to obtain permission to insert brightly colored flyers into news publications or hang them in public offices or retail stores.  posters and papers displayed in public locations are a great way to utilize an existing organization. 
  
the fifth and final form of outreach methods are displays at key settings.  this method is similar to using flyers or advertisements as a way to inform residents of planning.  however, is different in the way that it accomplishes this.  this method involves using a large vacant lot or path of high traffic to display information to the neighbors.  the lot needs to be in a central and busy area of the neighborhood in order to be effective.  all of these methods are ways in which planners can collect information from members of the neighborhood, involving the neighborhood in the planning process.

 planning process .

after a valid and useful information source has been established, collecting information becomes easier.  collecting information is the first step in neighborhood planning. planners combine the information they have gathered from residents with other information they have obtained from personal observation and surveying the land.  they use all of this information to create a large, more informative picture of the neighborhood.  
  
the second step in the neighborhood planning process is making sense of the information.  this entails pinpointing issues and establishing which issues are of major concern.  pinpointing issues helps to define which issues will take precedence if they should conflict with one another.
  
setting goals is the third step of neighborhood planning.  this step should come easily after certain issues and problems have been discovered.  the goals that are set need to represent the community and what would best suit their interests.

the fourth step in the neighborhood planning process is to come up with alternatives and select among them.  this involves the planning committee coming up with different alternatives for each goal.  after these alternatives are established the committee will discuss and decide which alternatives are the best suited to reach the goals. probably combining all alternatives in a way that benefits reaching all goals in the least loss-causing way would be the best alternative among all.


the fifth step of neighborhood planning is to put the plan together.  now that goals and policies have been established, strategies and specific courses of action need to be defined.  this involves putting all of the elements together to create a plan. 

the sixth step is to figure out how to implement the plan the committee has created.  this requires the planning committee to decide what actions need to take place in order to effectively implement the plan.  the committee needs to decide what resources are available, and ways in which to create more available resources. this step helps decide where funding and financial stability will come from. 
  
the seventh and final step of neighborhood planning is monitoring, evaluating, and updating your plan.  while this may be the final step of neighborhood planning, it does not mean that the planning process is finished.  the committee still needs to take a look at the decisions they have made and decide which parts of the plan work and do not work.  the plans that do not work should be revisited and revised. because the plan can always be updated and changed, the process is never really finished.  one thing is for sure, planning and sustaining a functional neighborhood is a process that involves generations of work and decision making.

 references .

clay, phillip l. neighborhood policy and planning. lexington : d.c. heath and company, 1983. ;

hester, randolph t. planning neighborhood space with people. new york :van nostrand reinhold company inc. , 1984. ;

jones, bernie.  neighborhood planning.  chicago : american planning association , 1990.



</doc>
<doc id="6217898" title="steve torpey" nonfiltered="867" processed="854" dbindex="877">
for the halifax town player, see steve torpey (footballer born 1981);



steve torpey born december 8 1970 in islington is an english football player.

steve torpey has been a member of the scunthorpe squad since signing from bristol city in february 2000. he became scunthorpe's record transfer signing, costing \a3175,000. the 6'3' target man managed to break the ten goal barrier in each of his first five seasons at scunthorpe and has represented the club over 250 times. scoring only once in the 2005/06 season, torpey looks to be firmly in the twilight of his career and his status as one of the first choice strikers is increasingly being threatened by the upcoming forwards billy sharp and new signing ramon calliste. on the opening day of the 2006/07 season, steve torpey was sent off against his former club, bristol city.















</doc>
<doc id="3833026" title="committee of adjustment" nonfiltered="868" processed="855" dbindex="878">
 
a committee of adjustment, similar to a zoning board of adjustment, is a quasi-judicial body in each ontario municipality that decides matters of minor variances to zoning and planning by-laws.




</doc>
<doc id="3969556" title="christian vanneque" nonfiltered="869" processed="856" dbindex="879">
christian vanneque was head sommelier of la tour d'argent, a famous three star restaurant in paris. the royalty of nations, stars of hollywood and political leaders have all dined at la tour d'argent, which is probably the most famous restaurant in paris.

he served as an expert wine taster at the paris wine tasting of 1976.

he also participated in the the wine rematch of the century on the 30th anniversary of the paris event. he said he was "very impressed" with the results, which were a "wonderfully sustained victory" for california wines. "i don't know if i will be able to go back to france." he explained that "after a second time (that california wines win), they will kill me."

see also.
french wine;

sources.
taber, george m. judgment of paris: california vs france and the historic 1976 paris tasting that revolutionized wine. ny: scribner, 2005.
chapman, glenn. california wines win epic rematch the standard (china), may 26, 2006 ;








</doc>
<doc id="7089081" title="sami" nonfiltered="870" processed="857" dbindex="880">
released in 1998, sami (synchronized accessible media interchange) is a microsoft accessibility initiative. the structured markup language is designed to simplify creating captions for media playback on a pc, i.e. not for broadcast purposes.

sami documents are text, and can be written in any text editor, although there are special utilities available to create sami documents. they use .smi or .sami file extensions. the common use of .smi for sami files creates a file extension collision with smil files. 

each sami document may contain more than one language. 

sami is the predominant caption file format in south korea.

use of html tags and css.
html and css may be used to format text in sami documents. the following html tags are valid in sami:




media players that support sami.
alshow;
bsplayer;
gom player;
mplayer;
vlc media player;
windows media player;
xine;
the kmplayer;

sami authoring tools.
audio wasp;
hi-caption;

see also.
sami;
smil;
closed captions;

external links.
sami;


</doc>
<doc id="6771325" title="g\fcglinger bluegrass festival" nonfiltered="871" processed="858" dbindex="881">
the g\fcglinger bluegrass festival was a yearly bluegrass music festival that took place in g\fcglingen, germany. the festival became one of the largest bluegrass festivals in europe until it ceased after 2001. it has been followed by the internationales b\fchler bluegrass festival.

the festival attracted major bands from the american scene like the nashville bluegrass band, country gazette, the tony rice unit, laurie lewis and grant street, and tim o'brien and the o'boys. 





</doc>
<doc id="6961735" title="broad fleet" nonfiltered="872" processed="859" dbindex="882">
broad fleet is a brook draining the area around pilling in lancashire, england.

broad fleet's source is at stake pool, where ridgy pool joins pilling water.

broad fleet is fed by wrampool brook as it approaches morecambe bay.




</doc>
<doc id="838655" title="john percival postgate" nonfiltered="873" processed="860" dbindex="883">
john percival postgate (october 24, 1853 - july 15, 1926) was an english classicist, professor of latin at the university of liverpool from 1909 to 1920.

born in birmingham, the son of john postgate, he was educated at king edward's school where he became head boy. he won a scholarship to trinity college, cambridge where he read classics, being elected a fellow in 1878.

he established himself as a creative editor of latin poetry with published editions of propertius, lucan and tibullus. his major work was the corpus poetarum latinorum. while at cambridge, he edited the classical review and the classical quarterly while holding the chair of comparative philology at university college, london.

in 1909, reconciled that the cambridge chair would go to a.e. housman, postgate became professor of latin at liverpool.

he retired to cambridge in 1920. on july 14, 1926 he was injured in a cycling accident and died of his injuries the following day.

he was the father of raymond and margaret, and grandfather of oliver postgate.

bibliography.
todd, r. b. (ed.) (2004) dictionary of british classicists isbn 1-85506-997-0;








</doc>
<doc id="4222797" title="bob rebadow" nonfiltered="874" processed="861" dbindex="884">
robert 'bob' rebadow is a fictional character from the television series oz played by george morfogen, a drama series on hbo that portrays a maximum security prison and follows the lives of the inmates in the prison. he is the oldest inmate on the show and a member of "the others", the group in oz which generally stays away from trouble, unlike the other groups in oz. if rebadow does cause trouble, it is likely because he was following someone else.

background.

rebadow was a successful young architect sometime in the mid-1960s. with a child on the way, he was planning a large-scale architectural project. the building manager disliked rebadow's plans for the building and exploded at rebadow, crumpling the plans up and throwing them in rebadow's face; the enraged rebadow snapped and stabbed the building manager to death. in spite of the abrupt nature of the crime, rebadow was still convicted of premeditated murder and sentenced to death by the electric chair. during rebadow's execution, there was a power surge (attributed to the great northeast blackout of 1965); the execution was botched and rebadow was admitted to the medical unit for the injuries he sustained during the botched electrocution. during his stay, the death penalty was abolished and his sentence was commuted to life in prison without the possibility of parole. following rebadow's release back into general population, he began claiming that he now received regular visits from god. although written off as insane, rebadow now possesses an uncanny ability to know everything going on in oz, and in some instances even knows private details about prisoner's lives without having been told them.

season 1.

in season 1, rebadow is one of the 60 inmates let into emerald city, an experimental cell block in the oswald prison. rebadow spends his time listening to what "god" has told him and seems to know all of the events occurring in oz ambiguously proving his supposed theory on what god has told him. rebadow knows so much that the cos threaten him to expose him for his knowledge over the murder of inmate jefferson keane. later rebadow is attacked by young inmate kenny wangler, a move that angers unit manager tim mcmanus. when a riot led by muslim inmate kareem said breaks out, rebadow stays low avoiding the cos wrath in the recapturing of em city.

season 2.

as the inmates are moved to gen pop, rebadow rooms with tobias beecher in james robson's cell as alvah case investigates the riot aftermath. as em city is reopened, bob and three other inmates form the group "the others"" as designated by tim mcmanus. while in em city, rebadow becomes cell mates with agamemnon busmalis, and the two form a friendship, possibly because they are both much older than the typical oz inmate. busmalis is known for digging tunnels, and begins to dig in their cell. rebadow also receives news that his grandson alex jr. is dying of leukemia and his dying wish is to visit disney land. at the suggestion of biker inmate jaz hoyt almost every inmate group donates to send alex jr. to his destination to the point that rebadow's family can afford to send him. later two aryans find out about the tunnel and take the cell from rebadow and busmalis courtesy of co karl metzger. under rebadow's orders, the tunnel collapses and kills the two escaping aryans and busmalis and rebadow get off as mcmanus deems them as being threatened and non-violent, unable to maliciously cause harm to the bullying younger inmates. 

season 4.

in season 4 rebadow apparently goes insane; seemingly apropos of nothing, he enteres into an alliance with new latino inmate enrique morales and murders latino head raoul "el cid" hernandez. in exchange for the murder, rebadow requests that morales grant him the authority to committ another murder (morales doesn't have anyone else he needs killed and he doesn't understand what does it even mean to give authority to kill people he doesn't need killed, but he agrees to give him protection - whatever that means). that day during lunch, rebadow has visions of machine-gunning the entire populace of oz to death; later that night, rebadow attempts to murder his cell mate busmalis. in the aftermath of the attempted murder, a physical exam of rebadow revealed a brain tumor affection the region of the brain which controls aggression. once it was removed, rebadow returned to his old self.

external links.
 official character biography at oz website;



</doc>
<doc id="3537305" title="tucano language" nonfiltered="875" processed="862" dbindex="885">


tucano (also tukana, tucana, tukano, dasea, jurut\ed, jurit\ed, yurut\ed, tariana, tariano, kone\e1, kore\e1, patsoka, wahyara; autonym: dahsey\e9) is a tucanoan language spoken in amazonas, brazil and colombia.

many speakers of the endangered tariana language are switching to tucano.




bibliography.

 campbell, lyle. (1997). american indian languages: the historical linguistics of native america. new york: oxford university press. isbn 0-19-509427-1.
 gordon, raymond g., jr. (ed.). (2005). ethnologue: languages of the world (15th ed.). dallas, tx: sil international. isbn 1-55671-159-x. (online version: http://www.ethnologue.com).



</doc>
<doc id="7721553" title="history of slavery in new jersey" nonfiltered="876" processed="863" dbindex="886">
slavery in new jersey was instituted in the seventeenth century (1600 1700) shortly after europeans first settled in the colony.  slavery effected several ethnic and racial groups, including africans, native americans, and whites (through indentured servitude), however, after the early colonial period, much of new jersey's legacy in slavery involved african labour.  the first african slaves introduced imported by dutch settlers in new amsterdam (present day new york and new jersey), and english settlers continued the practice after taking the colony from the dutch in 1664.  according to historian giles wright, in 1790, new jersey's slave population (chiefly african-american) was comprised of approximately 14,000 people.

while the new jersey state legislature first passed laws that sought to end the practice of slavery as early as 1804,
several individuals remained in bondage years after the close of the american civil war and the ratification of the thirteenth amendment to the united states constitution which ended slavery in the united states of america in 1865.  new jersey's abolition of slavery was gradual, as the 1804 statute and several subsequent laws, only freed slaves born after the promulgation of those laws upon their reaching the age of 21.  slaves who were born before these laws were "apprenticed for life."  initially, new jersey refused to ratify the 13th amendment.
 
although new jersey eventually ratified the 13th amendment to the united states constitution and abolished slavery,
 the state did not formally apologize for its early support of the institution, and retract the last of its pro-slavery legislative actions until 2005.

origins.
dutch new amsterdam.
english importation of slaves.


social and economic impact.

anti-slavery and abolition.
opposition by west jersey quakers.
abolitionist movement.
underground railroad.

see also.
 abolitionism;
 american civil war;
 fugitive slave laws;
 history of new jersey;
 history of slavery in the united states;
 new jersey;
 slave rebellion;
 slavery;
 slavery in colonial america;
 ;

references.   
notes and citations.




books and printed materials.
 burstyn, joan n. (editor). past and promise: lives of new jersey women. (syracuse, new york: syracuse university press, 1997). isbn;
 price, clement alexander. freedom not far distant: a documentary history of afro-americans in new jersey. (newark, new jersey: new jersey historical society, 1980). isbn;
 snell, james p. history of sussex and warren counties, new jersey, with illustrations and biographical sketches of its prominent men and pioneers. (philadelphia: everts & peck, 1881). no isbn (pre-1964);
 wright, giles r. afro-americans in new jersey (trenton, new jersey: department of state, new jersey historical commission, 1998). isbn;

external links.
 slavery in the north;
 the law of slavery in new jersey at the new jersey digital legal library.
 history of slavery in new jersey;








</doc>
<doc id="60258" title="sea lion" nonfiltered="877" processed="864" dbindex="887">



a sea lion is any of several marine mammals of the family otariidae. sea lions are characterized by the presence of external ear pinnae or flaps, long front flippers, and the ability to walk on four flippers on land. sea lions are generally found in coastal waters of the temperate to subpolar regions of both northern and southern hemispheres. 

sea lions are often a popular attraction at zoos and aquariums, performing tricks such as throwing and catching balls on their noses and clapping.

sea lions of many species have seen a severe and rapid decrease in numbers in recent years. many factors including overfishing of other species, shooting by fishermen and pollution have probably contributed to the decline. the population of steller's sea lions in alaska has declined as much as 80% since the 1970s.   

taxonomy.
 suborder pinnipedia;
 family otariidae;
 subfamily arctocephalinae: fur seals;
 subfamily otariinae;
 steller's sea lion, eumetopias jubatus;
 california sea lion, zalophus californianus;
 south american sea lion, otaria flavescens;
 australian sea lion, neophoca cinerea;
 new zealand sea lion, phocarctos hookeri;
 family phocidae: true seals;
 family odobenidae: walrus;


hybridization.
a hybrid sea lion from a cross between the california sea lion (zalophus californianus) and the south american sea lion (otaria byronia) has occurred.

references.


external links.
 video of sea lions on the otago peninsula, dunedin, new zealand;


















</doc>
<doc id="51503" title="progressive rock" nonfiltered="878" processed="865" dbindex="888">



progressive rock (sometimes shortened to prog or prog rock) is a subgenre of rock music which arose in the mid-to-late 1960s, reached the peak of its popularity in the 1970s, and has continued as a form of popular music to this day. it is commonly associated with symphonic rock and art rock, although the term progressive rock in today's usage often embraces a significantly wider spectrum of music than these styles.

progressive rock acts often combine elements of jazz and classical music, folk and world music influences with rock formats, often rejecting specific genre norms, and instead utilising relatively uncommon musical structures and ideas. as such, it can be seen as an approach to songwriting as well as a genre of its own.

seminal acts associated with the genre during the 1970s include jethro tull, yes, genesis, pink floyd, emerson, lake & palmer, rush, gentle giant, van der graaf generator, uriah heep and king crimson
the characteristics of progressive rock can be difficult to define, for example the above mentioned bands bear little resemblance to one another in their respective sounds and fan bases. outspoken king crimson leader robert fripp has voiced his disdain for the term. indeed, in some cases the bands themselves or well-known critics would question whether one or another of the above bands fit the term  progressive rock  as it is now defined by the music industry and by many fans.  there is also debate on whether artists and bands as varied as queen, the moody blues, frank zappa, phish, tool, electric light orchestra, and the flaming lips belong to the genre.

related, occasionally overlapping genres to progessive rock in 1970s were jazz fusion, especially its subgenre called jazz-rock (eg. return to forever, the mahavishnu orchestra), and loosely defined "new age music" (eg. mike oldfield, vangelis).

characteristics of progressive rock.



the most typical characteristics.

the most striking tendency and identifying feature of any given piece of progressive rock is that it feels carefully composed, yet spontaneous and improvised at one and the same time. it is true to say that progressive rock lends itself as much to emotional enjoyment as it does to intellectual analysis. hence, the most typical characteristics may be found by exploring the basic 5 elements of music as taught to most music undergraduates, but are not easily determined by casual listening alone; 

1. form: a piece of progressive rock either avoids common song structures of verse, chorus, bridge, etc, or blurs the distinctions by extending sections or inserting additional ones, for example, via musical interludes. contrasts would often be made between these sections in terms of dynamics, such that soft passages would build to louder passages and so on. this approach is common in rock music, but more pronounced in the more theatrical progressive rock groups. as the genre developed, the quantity of these sections increased, as progressive rock acts continued their allusions towards classical music and composed entire suites, building on the traditional medleys of earlier rock bands. another common structural feature lies in extended instrumental passages that are part composed and part improvised, aspects which are usually associated with jazz and classical music, but less frequent in rock and popular music. this can often lead to pieces in excess of 20 minutes. 

2. timbre: (instrumentation and dynamic): early progressive rock groups added additional instrumentation to the typical rock group lineup of a guitarist, bassist, and drummer, often adding keyboards or synthesizers.  these and other instruments, particularly instruments common to classical and jazz music, such as the flute, saxophone or violin, are frequently used as part of the overall musical texture of the group's musical output. this represents a major departure from the "featured instrument in particular songs" status such instruments held in mainstream rock and pop music - for example, in the beatles' music - but again, is a feature of jazz and classical music. progressive rock acts would also incorporate orchestras and choirs - although this is not exclusively a feature of progressive rock, as it is a feature of 1940s swing, motown and other orchestra-backed popular music. dynamically, progressive rock acts often tend towards the extremes.

3. rhythm: use of time signatures and rhythmic techniques uncommon to rock music. progressive rock music is often written with an artistic approach first and foremost - it was generally not envisaged that people would necessarily dance to it. the rhythms, therefore, were developed to drive the music rather than the listener's feet. changing time signatures and even layering poly rhythms were techniques more typical of classical and jazz music than of rock music. the use of repetitive riffs was shunned.

4. harmony: there are few pieces of progressive rock that adhere to the i - iv - v chord progressions of early rock - indeed, this is almost invariably avoided in favour of less predictable progressions. simple triads are frequently built upon - a common jazz technique - so that 6ths, 7ths and so on are layered to build more indeterminate harmonies that can push some pieces of progressive rock into the atonal or dissonant. a common exception to this, however, is where a band will deliberately use classical harmonic progressions or devices - and sometimes, entire works - in order to allude to classical music, e.g. elp. a few brave bands even include rudimentary serialism in their music, in their bid to escape "standard" diatonic harmony. the harmony of progressive rock, like jazz, is often almost inextricably linked with the use of modes in the melodies. 

5. melody: while the ionian mode is still prevalent even in progressive rock, the blues-associated pentatonic scale is conspicuous by its absence. in progressive rock, melodies tend to be long and often meandering, especially in instrumental solo passages, often with little or no clear indication of cadence.

another non-musical element common to progressive rock is the lyrics. in progressive rock, the romantic lyrics typical of pop songs and the more down-to-earth themes of blues and mainstream rock genres almost never appear. instead, the lyrics tend to be conceptually themed or based at least partly in fantasy, and are often written and presented as poetry - another example of the genre's high-brow allusions. the lyrics as presented by necessity had a large impact on all of the musical elements, as pieces were often put together to express the lyrics such that the melody and dynamic carried inferences on allusions, the harmony expressed emotional subtext (e.g. through suggestive use of major or minor chords) and the rhythms would accent words or phrases. limited use of leitmotif and other more textural techniques used in characterisation can also be found in pieces such as genesis "harold the barrel".

other characteristics.
 concept albums, in which a theme or storyline is explored throughout an entire album or series of albums, sometimes in a manner similar to a film or a play, often called "rock operas" (a term popularized by the likes of the who and andrew lloyd webber). in the days of vinyl, concept albums extended to two or even three record sets with striking gatefold sleeves. famous examples include the lamb lies down on broadway by genesis, and pink floyd's the wall, which was accompanied by a film of the same name and an elaborate live show. it is important to realise that concepts and concept albums are not the sole domain of progressive rock, however - the first noted "concept album" is frank sinatra's "in the wee small hours" (1957), and conversely, that not all progressive rock albums are concept albums.
 an aesthetic linking the music with visual art, a trend started by the beatles with sgt. pepper's lonely hearts club band and enthusiastically embraced during the prog heyday. some bands became as well-known for the art direction of their albums as for their sound, with the "look" integrated into the band's overall musical identity. this led to fame for particular artists and design studios, most notably roger dean for his work with yes, and storm thorgerson and his studio hipgnosis for their work with pink floyd and others. h.r. giger's painting for emerson, lake and palmer's brain salad surgery is one of the most famous album sleeves ever produced, although it was censored to remove a phallus. paul whitehead produced evocative gatefold album covers and sleeves for genesis and van der graaf generator.

history of progressive rock.
precursors.

it can be reasonably concluded that progressive rock originated in britain in the late 1960s, from a variety of musical influences worldwide. the term progressive, as applied to music, originated in the late 1940s in relation to jazz. later in the 1960s, the term was used in connection with the blues, e.g. the decca series of "the progressive world of..." series, and johnny winters' progressive blues experiment. it wasn't until the mid 1970s that the music that is now known as progressive rock acquired its posthumous credit.

amongst other developments, the later beatles (heavily influenced by the byrds), and many psychedelic bands began to combine traditional rock music with instruments from classical  music, eastern music and jazz. pink floyd's and frank zappa's earliest work showed certain progressive elements. an important precursor, beck's bolero, composed by then-yardbirds jeff beck and jimmy page in 1966, is a brief reworking of maurice ravel's bol\e9ro. one of the earliest rock bands to experiment with song structures, improvisation and multi-layered arrangements, was 1-2-3 (later clouds). psychedelic rock continued this experimental trend and began to compose very long pieces, although usually without any carefully thought-out structure (for example, iron butterfly's "in-a-gadda-da-vida" or "1983...(a merman should i turn to be)" by jimi hendrix). 

bands such as the nice and the moody blues began deliberately combining rock music with classical music, producing longer pieces that were composed and not jam-based. for their part german electronic music and krautrock pioneers tangerine dream introduced a variety of synthesisers, tape effects, and other unusual sounds in their compositions, usually in purely instrumental albums. soft machine and others  began to experiment with complex rock and jazz. by the mid- to late-'60s, the who had also created concept albums and rock operas, as well as long live rock song performances   although those were often in the more blues-based improvisational style also featured by contemporaries cream and led zeppelin. 

all of these bands are sometimes considered "early progressive," or as part of a transitional genre between psychedelic and progressive, sometimes referred to as proto-prog.

first progressive rock acts.

key early progressive rock bands included the nice and soft machine and the roots of the genre can be traced back to the mid-sixties. however, king crimson's appearance in february 1969 is  viewed by some as a pivotal moment. king crimson were quickly followed by other british progressive rock bands, including yes, genesis, pink floyd, emerson lake and palmer (elp), and jethro tull. it is worth noting that, aside from elp, these bands began their careers before king crimson, and changed their musical styles considerably following the release of in the court of the crimson king. also, pink floyd's change in sound was probably due to the loss of syd barrett, their main song writer from 1965-1967. as for elp, they inherited their singer and bass guitarist, greg lake, from the original king crimson lineup.

some strands of  progressive rock also gained momentum when rock fans grew disillusioned with the "peace and love" movement. some progressive bands  started to move away  from the "smiles and sunshine" of 1960s pop music closer to more complex and reflective, and sometimes also darker themes. for example, genesis' trespass includes "the knife", a song about a violent demagogue, and "stagnation", a song about a survivor of a nuclear attack. genesis labelmates, van der graaf generator, sometimes took an existentialist approach that bordered on nihilism.

progressive rock was especially popular in continental europe and some parts of latin america. indeed, progressive rock enjoyed a captivating popularity in countries such as italy and france. this era saw a great number of european progressive rock bands, most notably premiata forneria marconi (pfm), area, the aforementioned banco del mutuo soccorso and le orme from italy, ange and magma from france, focus and kayak from the netherlands and aphrodite's child from greece. of these bands, only pfm was significantly successful in the english-speaking world. germany also had a significant progressive movement, often referred to as krautrock. among these bands, we can cite triumvirat. the italian progressive rock has been considered somehow a case of its own (sometimes cited as a separated genre, as "italian symphonic rock"). although most of the bands scored appalling success even in their home country (often releasing only one lp), today cds of otherwise unknown groups like museo rosenbach, osanna, il balletto di bronzo, semiramis etc., along with the more renowned ones, are increasingly sought by fans as true classics of the genre, and also attracting the interests of higher musical critics and universities. in brazil, os mutantes combined elements of traditional brazilian music, psychedelic rock and experimental sounds to create intricate yet unorthodox arrangements, with imagery and lyrics inspired by fantasy, literature and history.

a strong element of avant-garde and counter-culture has long been associated with a great deal of progressive rock. in the 70's, chris cutler of henry cow helped to form a loose collective of artists referred to as rock in opposition or rio, whose purpose was essentially to make a statement against the music industry. the original members included such diverse groups as henry cow, samla mammas manna, univers zero, etron fou leloublan, stormy six, and later art zoyd, art bears, and aqsak maboul. the rock in opposition movement was short-lived, but the artists came to be recognized as some of the originators of avant-progressive rock. dark melodies, angular progressions, dissonance, free-form playing, and a disregard for conventional structure are all elements that have been used to describe these artists.

rise and fall.

fans and music historians have a variety of ways to categorize the flavors of 1970s progressive rock.  the canterbury scene can be considered a sub-genre of progressive rock, more oriented towards jazz rock, or simply another collection of true progressive rock bands.  other bands took the genre in a more commercial direction. these bands, including renaissance, the alan parsons project, queen and electric light orchestra, are sometimes classified as "progressive rock", "commercial rock",  or "symphonic pop." over time, led zeppelin and supertramp, among others, also incorporated more unusual instrumental elements, odd time signatures, and long compositions into their work. in a similar "prog pop" vein was manfred mann's earth band, which featured virtuoso minimoog solos by mann. the group was regarded as a first-rate prog rock act, considering manfred mann's more well-known 1960's pop heritage. 

progressive rock's popularity peaked in the mid-1970s, when prog artists regularly topped readers' votes in mainstream popular music magazines in england and america. by this time, several north american progressive rock bands had been formed. kansas, which had actually existed in one form or another since 1971, became one of the most commercially successful of all progressive rock bands. toronto's rush were equally successful, with a string of hit albums extending from the mid-1970s to the present. less commercially successful, but at least as influential as either band, were the dixie dregs, from georgia (arguably more of a fusion band).



with the advent of punk rock in the late 1970s, critical opinion in england moved toward a simpler and more aggressive style of rock, with progressive bands increasingly dismissed as pretentious and overblown, ending progressive rock's reign as one of the leading styles in rock. this development is often seen as part of wider commercial turn in popular music in second half of the 1970s during which many funk or soul bands switched to disco and smooth jazz gained popularity over jazz fusion. however, established progressive bands still had a large following, with rush, genesis, yes and pink floyd all regularly scoring top ten albums with massive accompanying tours, for some of these bands, their largest yet. by 1979, by which time it is generally agreed that punk had mutated into new wave, pink floyd released the wall, one of the best selling albums in history.  many bands which emerged in the aftermath of punk, such as siouxsie and the banshees, cabaret voltaire, ultravox, simple minds and wire all displayed prog, as well as their more usually recognised punk, influences.

1980s revival.

the early 1980s saw something of a revival of the genre, led by artists such as marillion, iq, twelfth night, pendragon, galahad, pallas, and saga. groups that arose during this time are sometimes termed neo-progressive or neo-prog (also referred to as the new wave of british prog rock). bands of this style were influenced by 70s progressive rock groups like genesis, yes, and camel, but incorporated some elements that were reflective of the new wave and other rock elements found in the 80s. the digital synthesiser became a prominent instrument in the style. neo-prog continued to remain viable into the 90s and beyond with bands like arena, jadis, collage, and iluvatar. their sound was generally similar in style and sound to neo-prog pioneers like marillion and iq, which differentiated them from the emerging third wave movement in the 1990s. 

some progressive rock stalwarts changed musical direction, simplifying their music and making it more commercially viable. in 1982, the much anticipated supergroup asia, composed of steve howe (yes), carl palmer (elp), john wetton (king crimson), and geoff downes (buggles/yes), surprised (and disappointed) progressive rock fans with their pop-oriented debut album. the top 5 single "heat of the moment" rotated heavily on mtv for years, while the first asia album established a sales record for 1982. this demonstrated a market for more commercialized british progressive rock    a style very similar to that played by north american top 40 stalwarts such as styx, foreigner, boston and journey. 

other british bands followed asia's lucrative example. in 1983, genesis achieved some international success with "mama", a song with heavy emphasis on a drum machine riff, signaling the band's change to a very commercial direction during the 1980s. also in 1983, yes had a surprise comeback with 90125, featuring their only number one (us) single, "owner of a lonely heart".  written by guitarist trevor rabin prior to joining the group, "owner" was accessible enough to be played at discos, and more recently has been remixed into a trance single. often sampled by hip-hop artists, "owner" also incorporated contemporary electronic effects, courtesy of producer (and former member) trevor horn. likewise, pink floyd's a momentary lapse of reason in 1987 was a departure from their traditional extended play concept albums, featuring much shorter songs and an altogether more electronic sound.

many progressive rock fans were unhappy with the direction taken by these bands, but others simply accepted the changes and enjoyed the music.  yes, for instance, enjoyed a brief renaissance during the 1980s with a mixture of old and new fans.  other progressive rock bands like rush arguably released some of their best material during the early and mid-1980s thanks to a merging of new wave and early progressive sounds.  

some bands that began as mainly new wave or punk acts developed leanings toward progressive rock during this time. the most notable example was probably the police, who took criticism from some hardline reggae and ska fans for turning too "artsy." their final studio recording as a group would be a prog-style concept album (helmed by genesis producer hugh padgham) titled synchronicity.

third wave and progressive metal.

the progressive rock genre enjoyed another revival in the 1990s. a notable kickoff to this revival were a trio of swedish bands: \c4nglag\e5rd, anekdoten, and landberk, who hit the scene in 1992-1993. later came the so-called "third wave", spearheaded by such bands as scandinavia's the flower kings and white willow, the uk's porcupine tree, italy's finisterre and deus ex machina, and spock's beard, echolyn, ten jinn, proto-kaw, and glass hammer from the united states. arjen anthony lucassen, with the backing of an array of talent from the progressive rock genre, produced a series of innovative concept albums. while not necessarily sounding alike, many of the third wave bands had very strong ties musically to the 1970s progressive rock acts, often to the point of sounding "retro." 

one of the most commercially successful bands of the alternative rock movement, the smashing pumpkins, incorporated progressive rock elements into their unique, eclectic style, with many 8 and 9-minute songs, and going so far as to release two concept albums (based on the same concept). seattle's soundgarden were unique in that they helped bridge the gap between progressive rock and the grunge movement, with their occasionally extended songs, odd time-signatures, and technically-challenging distorted rock. jane's addiction's 1990 album ritual de lo habitual held similar attraction to fans of complex rock, highlighted by two back-to-back, ten minute, multi-part tracks revolving around a single storyline. the band phish would often be mentioned as technically qualifying for the label of progressive rock due to the incorporation of characteristic elements of prog, mostly in their long "jam songs" with many varied sections and abrupt changes.

in recent years, one of the more commercially viable categories of prog has been progressive metal, which mixes some of the common elements associated with progressive rock (lengthy compositions, concept albums, odd time signatures, virtuosity) with the power and attitude associated with metal. one distinguishing characteristic of prog metal is the prominence of keyboard instruments in what is usually a very guitar-dominated style of music. several of the leading bands in the prog-metal genre  dream theater (u.s.), ayreon (netherlands), opeth (sweden), fates warning (u.s.) and queensr\ffche (u.s.) cite pioneer progressive hard-rockers rush as a primary influence, although their music exhibits influences from more traditional metal bands such as black sabbath or deep purple as well. tool have cited pioneers king crimson as an influence on their work. king crimson opened for tool on their 2001 tour, and expressed admiration for the group while continuing to deny the "prog" label . 

meanwhile, other heavy metal bands not generally considered prog-metal, such as system of a down, have nevertheless incorporated prog-influenced elements like bizarre shifts in time signatures and tempo into their music. in recent years, a number of heavily classical-influenced symphonic, gothic and power metal bands have emerged in europe; most notable of these is probably finland's nightwish. though these groups generally do not think of themselves as progressive metal bands, fans of the genre often consider them to be so, and several could lay claim at least as many of the "characteristics of progressive rock" listed above as can bands like dream theater.

it should be noted that while the term "progressive" was originally coined in the 1970s to emphasize the newness of the musical direction being taken by certain bands, by the 1980s the term had mostly just become the name of a musical style.  as a result, bands like king crimson which continued to explore new directions were not always considered "progressive" (presumably much to robert fripp's relief), while, paradoxically, some newer self-described "progressive" bands purchased vintage mellotrons to recreate the sound of early 1970s groups. fans and critics alike have established "progressive rock" as the permanent name of the 70s style, and so the usual meaning of "progressive" has to a large degree become irrelevant.

influences.

the work of contemporary artists such as ween, post-rock bands like sigur r\f3s and godspeed you! black emperor, and alternative or new prog groups like radiohead and muse could be said to incorporate some of the elements of progressive rock, sometimes combined with the aesthetic sensibilities of punk rock. the cult english band cardiacs has specialised since 1980 in a kind of progressive punk sound which has influenced a slew of other bands who are occasionally described (with tongue-in-cheek) as pronk acts. among the more experimental and avant garde musicians, the japanese composer takashi yoshimatsu publicly cites progressive rock bands as a prime influence on his work, while glasgow's indie-rock band the fiery furnaces could also be considered progressive, blending electronic and orchestrated bits into their craft, while also expanding on the who's rock-opera ethos. the math rock genre that arose in the 1990s also has many elements familiar to progressive rock fans.

there are a number of contemporary prog bands, such as mostly autumn, that combine celtic, and sometimes pagan, influences with earlier prog rock styles. other bands of note incorporating progressive rock into their sound include the mars volta, umphrey's mcgee, porcupine tree, dredg, the dillinger escape plan, kayo dot, opeth, circa survive, gatsbys american dream, .moneen. and coheed and cambria.

progressive rock festivals.

renewed interest in progressive rock in the 1990s eventually led to the beginnings of musical events and festivals that centered around progressive rock acts. the first progfest was held on may 29, 1993, in ucla's royce hall and featured sweden's \c4nglag\e5rd, england's iq, quill, and citadel. interest in the festival was large enough for others in the u.s.a. to start similar events. progday, held at storybook farm near chapel hill, north carolina, first emerged during labor day weekend in 1995 and is planning its 12th festival in 2006. 

the most successful of these festivals to date is nearfest, which held its first event on june 26th & 27th, 1999 in bethlehem, pa to approximately 400 fans. with a diverse lineup and an ability to get big name talent, the festival eventually grew in popularity to fill a 1,000 seat venue, and later relocated to trenton, nj in 2002 to a venue which seated over 1,850. the festival relocated back to bethlehem, pa in 2004 and is still active. 

other current festivals of note include rosfest in phoenixville, pa, baja prog in mexicali, mexico, calprog in whittier, ca, prog in the park in rochester, ny, gouveia art rock in portugal, prog sud in marseille (france), tiana in barcelona (spain), progfarm in holland and rio art rock festival in rio de janeiro, brazil.

see also. 

 timeline of progressive rock;
 list of musical works in unusual time signatures (not limited to prog rock);
 list of popular songs based on classical music;
 list of progressive rock musicians;

related genres and sub-genres.
 avant-progressive rock;
 the canterbury scene;
 italian symphonic rock;
 krautrock;
 neo-prog;
 new prog;
 progressive metal;
 psychedelic rock;
 rock in opposition (rio);
 symphonic rock;
 brutal prog;

external links.
 prog archives;
 gibraltar encyclopedia of progressive rock;
 strawberry bricks - timeline of progressive rock;
 dutch progressive rock page;
 musicmoz directory - progressive rock;
 italian progressive rock;

reviews.
 gnosis a listing of nearly 60,000 progressive, experimental, jazz, and avant-garde musics.
 ground and sky a review website focusing on progressive and avant-garde rock.
 proggnosis-progressive rock & fusion a review website for progressive rock and fusion works.
 progressive ears a stimulating forum-based progressive rock website, with user-contributed reviews and a wealth of resources.
 progressiveworld.net a review and news site for progressive rock and progressive metal.
 progweed reviews, plus a few articles and interviews.
 ytsejam news, reviews and interviews.

references and notes.




further reading.

 lucky, jerry.  the progressive rock files burlington, ontario: collector's guide publishing, inc (1998), 304 pages, isbn 1-896522-10-6 (paperback).  gives an overview of progressive rock's history as well as histories of the major and underground bands in the genre.
  
 macan, edward.  rocking the classics:  english progressive rock and the counterculture. oxford:  oxford university press (1997), 290 pages, isbn 0195098870  (hardcover), isbn 0195098889  (paperback).  analyzes progressive rock using classical musicology and also sociology.
  
 martin, bill.  listening to the future:  the time of progressive rock. peru, ill.: carus publishing company (1998), 356 pages, isbn 0-8126-9368-x (paperback).  an enthusiastic analysis of progressive rock, intermixed with the author's marxist political views.
  
 stump, paul.  the music's all that matters:  a history of progressive rock. london:  quartet books limited (1997), 384 pages, isbn 0-7043-8036-6 (paperback).  smart telling of the history of progressive rock focusing on english bands with some discussion of american and european groups.  takes you from the beginning to the early 1990s.
  













































</doc>
<doc id="8849879" title="marilynn brewer" nonfiltered="879" processed="866" dbindex="889">
marilynn b. brewer (ph.d., northwestern university, 1968) is a prominent american social psychologist and is currently ohio eminent scholar and professor of psychology at ohio state university.

research.

brewer is well-known for her contributions to the field of social identity and has also conducted research in the areas of social cognition and intergroup relations.  while she is particularly recognized for her theory of optimal distinctiveness, she has been honored by a variety of organizations for wide-ranging and diverse contributions to the field of social psychology.

honors and awards.

 apa distinguished scientific contribution award;
 1995 kurt lewin memorial award;
 donald t. campbell award for distinguished research in social psychology;
 society of experimental social psychology distinguished scientist award;
american academy of arts and sciences (member);

external links.

 brewer's osu home page;
 brewer's social psychology network page;



</doc>
<doc id="499041" title="akzo nobel" nonfiltered="880" processed="867" dbindex="890">

akzo nobel is a multinational company, active in the fields of healthcare products, coatings and chemicals. headquartered in arnhem, the netherlands, the company has activities in more than 80 countries, and employs approximately 62,000 people. sales in 2005 were eur 13 billion, of which 27% in pharma products, 43% in coatings, and 30% in chemicals products.

 organization .

akzo nobel consists of fifteen business units, with business responsibility and autonomy. for managerial purpose these cooperate in three groups, which are supported by one managerial board.

 board of management .

the board of management (bom) of akzo nobel consists of four people, viz. chairman and ceo since 2003 hans wijers, cfo rob frohn, and members toon wilderbeek and leif darner. the board holds office on the akzo nobel site in arnhem, the netherlands. in january 2007 the company  it will move headquarters to the amsterdam zuidas location in july 2007.

 pharmaceuticals .
the pharma group consists of two major business units
 organon international for human healthcare, and ;
 intervet for animal healthcare. ;
 diosynth is a smaller organizational unit, producing some core bulk ingredients;
 nobilon produces vaccines;

at the beginning of 2006, it was announced that akzo nobel intents to start an initial public offering for these business units, under the name of organon biosciences.

products developed by the pharma businesses include contraceptives (e.g., nuvaring\ae), antidepressants (e.g., remeron soltab\ae), infertility treatments (e.g., puregon\ae/follistim\ae) and veterinary vaccines (e.g., nobivac\ae dog and cat vaccines; equilis horse vaccines).

 coatings .
akzo nobel is the world's leading coatings company with key products paints, services and specialized equipment for the car repair and transportation market. the coatings groups consist of the business units:
 car refinishes (cr);
 decorative coatings europe (dce) and international (dci);
 industrial finishes (if);
 powder coatings (pow);
 marine and protective coatings (mpc);
 nobilas ;

the brands it manufactures include sikkens\ae, international\ae, crown\ae and interpon\ae. these products were used on london's millennium wheel, la scala opera house in milan, the \d6resund bridge between denmark and sweden, and stadium australia in sydney.

 chemicals .
following a 2005 reorganization, the chemicals group now consists of five business units.
 base chemicals (bc);
 functional chemicals (fc);
 polymer chemicals (pc);
 surfactants (sc);
 pulp and paper chemicals, under brand name eka chemicals (ppc);

as chemicals producer, akzo nobel is a world's leading salt specialist, chlor-alkali products, and other industrial chemicals. ultimately, akzo nobel products are found in everyday items such as paper, ice cream, bakery goods, cosmetics, plastics and glass. each bu has an annual turnover of approx eur 600 million.

 historical timeline .


 1777 danish paints company det holmbladske selskab;
 1792 dutch lacquers manufacturer sikkens lakken, founded by wiert willem sikkens in groningen;
 1826 british silk and crepe manufacturer courtaulds founded by samuel courtauld, ;
 1835 dutch sulfuric acid producer ketjen, founded by gerhard tileman ketjen;
 1838 dutch oils and oatmeal company noury & van der lande;
 1841 swedish stearin candles factory liljeholmens stearinfabrik, founded by lars johan hierta  in stockholm;
 1870 swedish superfosfate producer stockholms superfosfat fabrik,
 1874 swedish chemical company kemanobel was founded by alfred nobel;
 1886 dutch chemicals and soda factory, founded by constant kortman and herman schulte in rotterdam;
 1887 dutch pharmaceuticals laboratory zwanenburg;
 1895 swedish electrochemical company eka was founded also by alfred nobel;
 1899 german fiber producer vereinigte glanszstoff fabriken;
 1911 dutch nylon (artificial silk) company eerste nederlandse kunstzijdefabriek arnhem, founded by jacque coenraad hartogs in arnhem;
 1918 dutch salt producer nederlandse zoutindustrie (nezo);
 1921 us slaughtering industry armour meat packing starts fatty acid production, in chicago;
 1923 dutch pharmaceuticals company organon founded by saal van zwanenberg;
 1937 swedish producer of coatings for fishing lines berol, founded by bernstr\f6m and olson in s\f6dert\e3lje;
 1965 kortman and schulte is taken over by koninklijke zwanenburg organon forming koninklijke zout organon ;
 1969 the aku and the koninklijke zwanenburg organon merge, forming akzo;
 1984 kemanobel and swedish weapons manufacturer bofors merge to form nobel industries;
 1987 akzo acquires speciality chemicals division of stauffer;
 1990 courtaulds separates itself into two businesses, viz., courtaulds textiles for apparel manufacture and courtaulds plc for fibres and chemicals;
 1994 akzo merges with nobel industries, forming akzo nobel. the new akzo nobel has 20 business entities. bofors continues as a separate entity.
 1998 akzo nobel acquires courtaulds of the uk, a leading international chemical company which has leading positions in high-tech industrial coatings and man-made fibers. eu forces sale of aeronautical films and sealants businesses to allow completion.
 1999 akzo nobel divests its fibers group 'acordis' to cvc capital partners.
 2004 catalyst business sold to albemarle corp. and coatings resins business divested to nuplex industries.
 2006 akzo nobel acquires the quoted canadian coatings company sico inc.

see also.
list of european companies;
list of dutch companies;
list of swedish companies;

external links.
 akzo nobel - official site;
 organon;
 intervet;
 nobilon international;
 akzo nobel base chemicals;
 eka chemicals;
 akzo nobel car refinishes;



















</doc>
<doc id="1753468" title="subaru r1" nonfiltered="881" processed="868" dbindex="891">

the subaru r1 was introduced by the japanese carmaker subaru on january 4, 2005. it was designed to fit within the japanese keicar tax bracket.

the r1 is a two-door version of the subaru r2, but with a shorter body and wheelbase. the r1 is unique in that it doesn't use up the maximum length allowed for by the keicar regulations the only other keicars to have done this since the 1989 autozam carol were the suzuki twin and the european smart fortwo.

the r1 was only available in one spec level up to end of 2005 with one engine. a dohc 658 cc 16-valve avcs engine is the middle child in the trio of engines for the r2. it is available with the three engines which are available for the r2: the i with a sohc 34 kw (roughly 46 horsepower) engine, the r with the above mentioned dohc engine rated at 40 kw (54 horsepower) and the s with a supercharged and intercooled engine rated at 47 kw (63 horsepower). the r1 is being marketed as a personal car and as a middle-aged couple's second car; a combination of leather and alcantara seating is available. all r1s are equipped with a cvt, and all trim levels are available with front-wheel drive as well as four-wheel drive.

in its promotional materials, the r1 is frequently compared to the subaru 360, the first production subaru automobile.

the r1 is the base car for several vehicles:
the subaru r1e, an experimental  battery electric vehicle, currently undergoing limited production for selected industrial clients in japan. there is intense interest in this vehicle within the us ev community as it employs lithium ion batteries which contribute to a significant improvement in range.
the prodrive p2 concept supercar.;

collectibles.
tomica makes a diecast 1/64 r1, not available in us except ebay.
takaramakes a choro q plastic pull-back r1 not available in us except ebay.

references.











</doc>
<doc id="5203349" title="dirck gerritz pomp" nonfiltered="882" processed="869" dbindex="892">
dirck gerritszoon pomp, alias dirck china (1544-1608) was a dutch sailor of the 16th-17th century, and the first known dutchman to visit japan.

pomp was born in enkhuizen in the netherlands, and was lodged with relatives in lisbon in 1555, to learn portuguese and train as merchant. in 1568 dirk established himself as a merchant on the isle of goa from where he visited china and japan aboard portuguese ships. although the date of his first visit is not known, he sailed to japan twice before 1600, and it is recorded that he arrived in japan on july 31, 1585 for his second visit there, on the portuguese ship santa cruz.

he described japan as the "isle where there is a lot of silver and where portuguese ships arrive every year with silk, which is sold for silver". 

he returned to enkhuizen in april 1590 where he talked abundantly about japan, and befriended the dutch merchant jan huygen van linschoten, who apparently relied on some of pomp's information for his book itinerario.

in the summer of 1598 pomp was back at sea. he joined a five ship dutch expedition under admiral jacques mahu with the prima aim of obtaing east-indian spices, by way of the southern tip of south-america and the pacific. should that fail, the expedition would head for silver trade with china or japan. notably, among the other adverturers was william adams, the first known englishman to reach japan. a reshuffle of commands following the death of expedition leader mahu in 1598 led to pomp receiving command of the blijde boodschap ("good tiding" or "gospel"). strong and adverse winds dispersed the fleet when it risked the straits of magellan late in 1599. the blijde boodschap passed the straits, but was blown off her course southwardly. according to the account of jacob le maire, pomp then observed mountainous land at latitude (64\b0). if so, he these were the south shetland islands, and possibly the first european sighting of (isles off) antarctica. other accounts however make no mention of this observation, casting doubt on their correctness.
a similar story is told of the spanish gabriel de castilla in 1603.

pomp did not make it across the pacific. the blijde boodschap was so short of supplies it entered the port of valpara\edso mid-november 1599 and was captured by the spanish. five years later, in 1604, pomp was freed in a prisoners exchange and returned home to become a merchant in enkhuizen. not for long. he went aboard an eastindiaman belonging to the dutch east-india company in 1606 and seems not to have survived the home voyage.

notes.







</doc>
<doc id="3124852" title="forgotten kingdoms" nonfiltered="883" processed="870" dbindex="893">

forgotten kingdoms (called fk affectionately by those who play) is a role playing game based on dungeons & dragons third edition and set in tsr's forgotten realms campaign setting. it has been online since around 1999 and is made up of an enormous world (over 30,000) rooms. it has many features which make it unique such as meta-magic feats, a vast number of spells (almost 350), and a spell memorisation based on slots which closely matches the system used in dungeons and dragons. this is a feature that marks it as different to many other muds, especially owing to the way in which spells from the roleplaying game are coded along with components and echoes, to make the player feel they are really part of the world.

it is an rpi mud, and so there is a strong emphasis on role-playing over power-gaming.  players are allowed only one character online at a time, and are expected to roleplay this character to the best of their ability. there is otherwise no limit to the amount of characters you can create. it is considered cheating to exchange information learned while playing a character in the game by any out-of-game means.

the game's website is located at http://www.forgottenkingdoms.com, and can be played either by using telnet (telnet://game.forgottenkingdoms.com:4000) or any of the other clients available for connecting to muds on the internet 
(zmud or mushclient for example)

unique to forgotten kingdoms is a special client developed in java for fk which is available from http://www.skynet.ie/~martin/fang.

 the new player .

the new player to forgotten kingdoms can expect to find many features to enable him or her to enjoy their time online. although the mud is roleplay enforced, the people on the mud are friendly and encouraging to new people who have never roleplayed before. they can expect to find the immortals (staff) often playing the role of random passers-by to add depth to the world as a whole. as well, they can benefit from the unique spell system discussed already, and the councils discussed below, which help to allow the mud to function. there is also an atmosphere of creativity fostered on the mud. if a player wants to see a new area in the game that they loved reading about in the forgotten realms supplements or novels, they can apply to build that area. another proud feature of the game is the extensive set of help files available, covering most of the issues of the mud. whilst some are out of date, a group has been set up already to renew these helpfiles.

 classes .

there are many guilds available to players of forgotten kingdoms. upon creation, each character chooses a base class from: warrior, wizard, priest or rogue. as their character develops, they can choose to join one of the many guilds that scatter the forgotten kingdoms.

the guilds available to each class are:

warriors ;
 warriors primarily focus on physical combat.
 fighters ;
;
 paladins ;
;
 rangers;
;

wizards;
wizard spells range in level from 1 to 9, and once a wizard has chosen a specialisation from the list below (apart from mage which is a kind of jack of all trades!), they get an additional spell slot which they must use for spells from their specialist school. ;
 abjurers;
;
 conjurers ;
;
 enchanters ;
;
 illusionists ;
;
 invokers ;
;
 mages ;
;
 necromancers ;
;
 transmuters ;

rogues;
rogues on forgotten kingdoms can specialise as bards, or thieves. the rogue class requires a certain amount of kismet (credit for total hours logged by a player; this can also be earned through good roleplay) before it can be selected at character generation.

bards - bards on forgotten kingdoms are a special class, widely renowned for their skill at the performing arts. to join this guild, prospective members must first perform in public, be it singing, acting, reciting poetry or other displays of talent. forgotten kingdoms has a very skilled base of bards, and most bards actually publish books within the game world, adding to the realism of the mud!
 thieves;

priests ;
priests must join a faith, rather than a guild, and can choose from almost any of the forgotten realms gods to gain skills and spells particular to their deity. priest spells range in level from 1 to 9, and once they are faithed, they will get additional bonus spells specific to their faith. for example, priests of lathander might get 'fireshield' and 'phoenix claw' as two of their 18 unique domain spells.

 races .
there are many races available during character creation. unique and exotic races require varying amounts of kismet before they can be selected.
 aasimar;
;
 tiefling;
;
 moon elf ;
;
 wild elf;
;
 avariel elf;
;
 aquatic elf;
;
 sun elf;
;
 wood elf;
;
 dark elf;
;
 half elf;
;
 half drow;
;
 half orc;
;
 orc;
;
 goblin;
;
 human;
;
 forest gnome;
;
 rock gnome;
;
 deep gnome;
;
 ghostwise halfling;
;
 lightfoot halfling;
;
 strongheart halfling;
;
 air genasi;
;
 fire genasi;
;
 water genasi;
;
 earth genasi;
;
 gold dwarf;
;
 shield dwarf;
;
 arctic dwarf;
;
 gray dwarf;
;
 wild dwarf;
;
 urdunnir;

 alignments .
players may choose any alignment from the good, evil, neutral, lawful, and chotic combinations. players must have a certain amount of kismet to select evil or chaotic neutral alignments.

 councils .
players of forgotten kingdoms are encouraged to get involved and help keep it running smoothly. for this reason, the tasks of running have the game have been split up into 4 councils. these are:

 player council .
currently the largest council, this council is made up of people who help the general populace with any problems that they might face while playing. at the lowest level, this means answering questions  such as 'how do i open a door?' to, at the higher levels, dealing with complaints or helping to enforce rules such as the 'no multiplay' rule etc.
ask/answer - one enterprising feature in this mud, is the use of the ask/answer system that allows the members of the player council to deal with questions from both inexperienced and experienced people, quickly. the person wanting a question answered can use "ask", and the member of the player council can use "answer". the question is also automatically repeated so that the player asking the question is not forgotten about as a result of spam.

 builder council .
the second largest council, this council is made up everyone who wishes to expand the world of forgotten kingdoms, or to further enhance the existing world. forgotten kingdoms has both online and offline area creation, and a large team of experienced builders to help anyone who is interested to find their feet.
builder lessons - even for the newest players, the chance is there for them to build areas they want on the mud, owing to builder's lessons being available on the website. this is a step-by-step, simple guide that covers all the details of how to code an area, and has been invaluable in taking many new players' ideas and having them become a part of the game.

 roleplay council .
the roleplay council is in charge of running roleplay events in forgotten kingdoms. be it something as small as taking over some npcs to have a chat about the weather, or something large involving a multi-faction plot which twists and changes and threatens the imminent destruction of the world!

 code council .
this is the smallest council, and is made up of the people who develop the forgotten kingdoms game engine, which is written in c++. other members of the team act as testers, help maintain the bug database and collaborate on discussions on how to implement new features.

players are encouraged to join the council which most interests them. 

 interface .

forgotten kingdoms features a unique interface which provides all relevant information to the character in an easy to use manner. for example, in the top left of the screen there is a stick figure representing your character. generally, this stick figure is all green, but if your arm or leg get's injured it will turn to yellow, more horrific injuries will turn it red, and if you are unlucky enough to actually lose a limb it will disappear altogether!

other information available through the interface is a large map of the surrounding area if you are in the wilderness, or a small compass which highlights the exits available in your current location. lists of characters and objects of the room are also displayed, together with your current health and other details.

 history of forgotten kingdoms .
the 'fkmud' project began on the 13th of august, 1999 when greg & sharon vaughan approached martin gallwey with the idea of creating a new mud based on the forgotten realms campaign setting. greg, sharon and martin had previously met on a different game called mortal realms (http://www.mortalrealms.com), but were now searching for a new home where they would enjoy more freedom to be creative.

greg & sharon had since played a mud called 'shattered kingdoms' (http://www.shatteredkingdoms.org/), which had a policy of 'enforced roleplay'. they realised that this policy would have prevented many of the problems they had previously seen on mortal realms, and resolved to incorporate this policy into their new game.

martin, in the mean time, had created his own game, which was called 'shadow's wreath'. it was based on the smaug code base, and borrowed heavily from the mrmud code base martin had worked on previously. shadow's wreath was essentially the home of various people who had previously played on mortal realms, and while the administrators (martin gallwey, tyson nunemacher, kenneth mckeever and kelly saveika) had big ideas, the game struggled for a strong and independent vision.

the final component needed for the mix was provided when greg & sharon started to play dungeons & dragons in the forgotten realms campaign setting. they thoroughly enjoyed the depth created by the writers of tsr and further developed by the wizards of the coast.

at this point, forgotten kingdoms was conceived, based on the source code developed by martin for shadow's wreath and mortal realms, together with the forgotten realms universe and the enforced roleplay rules from shattered kingdoms. sharon undertook the daunting task of re-creating the forgotten realms universe in area files, but was helped enormously by her vast experience of building areas for mortal realms. martin and greg collaborated to work on the source, with one of their first tasks being re-creating many of the features they particularly enjoyed from shattered kingdoms.

from there, forgotten kingdoms grew rapidly. along the way, christophe leclere joined the team, and soon became sharon's right hand man, assisting her in administrating the area building team.

a unique gaming and role playing environment has evolved, aided along the way by the contributions of many builders since the game opened in 1999.

external links and references.
forgotten kingdoms homepage;
forgotten kingdoms mud forums ;
forgotten kingdoms mud getting started page;
forgotten kingdoms mud online store ;
forgotten kingdoms java client;
forgotten kingdoms builder's page and builder's lessons;
forgotten kingdoms mud connector entry;







</doc>
<doc id="9199882" title="hour of victory" nonfiltered="884" processed="871" dbindex="894">


  

hour of victory is a first person shooter set for release in summer of 2007. this game is an exclusive to the xbox 360. hour of victory is based on world war ii and is supposed to be one of the most graphically-advanced games for the xbox 360 (according to game informer). there is going to be a lot of vehicular combat and destructible environments. you will get to play the roles of three men, a covert operative, a british commando and a sharpshooting army ranger.   

 gameplay . 
 combat . 
there is supposed to be destructible environments and a huge inventory of world war ii weapons. 
weapons will include: 
 m1 garand ;
 german mp44 assault rifle  ;
 (more will be added as soon as information is gained)  ;

 vehicle combat . 
in this "special" vehicle combat, you don't just drive jeeps and tanks, you can drive anything you see on the battlefield that has wheels! 
vehicles will include:  
 tanks ;
 planes ;
 any cars you see on the battlefield. ;
 enemy's vehicles ;
 and many, many more.  ;





</doc>
<doc id="2332422" title="carcinogenesis" nonfiltered="885" processed="872" dbindex="895">

carcinogenesis (meaning literally, the creation of cancer) is the process by which normal cells are transformed into cancer cells. 

introduction.
cell division (proliferation) is a physiological process that occurs in almost all tissues and under many circumstances. normally homeostasis, the balance between proliferation and programmed cell death, usually in the form of apoptosis, is maintained by tightly regulating both processes to ensure the integrity of organs and tissues. mutations in dna that lead to cancer disrupt these orderly processes by disrupting the programming regulating the processes.

carcinogenesis is caused by this mutation of the genetic material of normal cells, which upsets the normal balance between proliferation and cell death. this results in uncontrolled cell division and tumor formation. the uncontrolled and often rapid proliferation of cells can lead to benign tumors; some types of these may turn into malignant tumors (cancer). benign tumors do not spread to other parts of the body or invade other tissues, and they are rarely a threat to life unless they compress vital structures or are physiologically active (for instance, producing a hormone). malignant tumors can invade other organs, spread to distant locations (metastasize) and become life threatening.

more than one mutation is necessary for carcinogenesis. in fact, a series of several mutations to certain classes of genes is usually required before a normal cell will transform into a cancer cell. only mutations in those certain types of genes which play vital roles in cell division, cell death, and dna repair will cause a cell to lose control of its proliferation.

properties of malignant cells.
cells capable of forming malignant tumors exhibit many properties which distinguish them from the cells of healthy tissue.
 they are resistant to apoptosis ("programmed" cell death).
 they have an uncontrolled ability to divide (or, they are immortal), and they often divide at an increased rate.
 these cells are self-sufficient with respect to growth factors.
 they are insensitive to antigrowth factors, and contact inhibition is suppressed.
 these cells may exhibit altered differentiation. ;

more aggressive malignant cells may also show additional abilities. 
 they have the ability to invade neighboring tissues, usually through the secretion of metalloproteinases that can digest extracellular matrix material.
 they can form new tumors (metastases) at distant sites.
 they secrete chemical signals that stimulate the growth of new blood vessels (angiogenesis).

nearly all cancers originate from a single cell, but a cell that degenerates into a tumor cell does not usually acquire all these properties at once. with each carcinogenic mutation, a cell gains a slight selective advantage over its neighbors, resulting in a process known as clonal evolution. this leads to an increased chance that the descendents of the original mutant cell will acquire extra mutations, giving them even more selective advantage. cells which acquire only some of the mutations necessary to become malignant are thought to be the source of benign tumors. however, when enough mutations accumulate, the mutant cells will become a malignant tumor.  


mechanisms of carcinogenesis.
cancer is, ultimately, a disease of genes. in order for cells to start dividing uncontrollably, genes which regulate cell growth must be damaged. proto-oncogenes are genes which promote cell growth and mitosis, a process of cell division, and tumor suppressor genes discourage cell growth, or temporarily halts cell division from occurring in order to carry out dna repair. typically, a series of several mutations to these genes are required before a normal cell transforms into a cancer cell.

 proto-oncogenes .
proto-oncogenes, promote cell growth through a variety of ways. many can produce hormones, a "chemical messenger" between cells which encourage mitosis, the effect of which depends on the signal transduction of the receiving tissue or cells. some are responsible for the signal transduction system and signal receptors in cells and tissues themselves, thus controlling the sensitivity to such hormones. they often produce mitogens, or are involved in transcription of dna in protein synthesis, which create the proteins and enzymes is responsible for producing the products and biochemicals cells use and interact with. 

mutations in proto-oncogenes can modify their expression and function, increasing the amount or activity of the product protein. when this happens, they become oncogenes, and thus cells have a higher chance to divide excessively and uncontrollably. the chance of cancer cannot be reduced by removing proto-oncogenes from the genome as they are critical for growth, repair and homeostasis of the body. it is only when they become mutated, that the signals for growth become excessive.

 tumor suppressor genes .
tumor suppressor genes code for anti-proliferation signals and proteins that suppress mitosis and cell growth. generally tumor suppressors are transcription factors that are activated by cellular stress or dna damage. often dna damage will cause the presence of free-floating genetic material as well as other signs, and will trigger enzymes and pathways which lead to the activation of tumor suppressor genes. the functions of such genes is to arrest the progression of cell cycle in order to carry out dna repair, preventing mutations from passed on to daughter cells. canonical tumor suppressors include the p53 gene, which is a transcription factor activated by many cellular stress including hypoxia and ultraviolet radiation damage.

however, a mutation can damage the tumor suppressor gene itself, or the signal pathway which activates it, "switching it off". the invariable consequence of this is that dna repair is hindered or inhibited: dna damage accumulates without repair, inevitably leading to cancer.

 multiple mutations .
in general, mutations in both types of genes are required for cancer to occur. for example, a mutation limited to one oncogene would be suppressed by normal mitosis control and tumor suppressor genes, which was first hypothesised by the knudson hypothesis. a mutation to only one tumor suppressor gene would not cause cancer either, due to the presence of many "backup" genes that duplicate its functions. it is only when enough proto-oncogenes have mutated into oncogenes, and enough tumor suppressor genes deactivated or damaged, that the signals for cell growth overwhelm the signals to regulate it, that cell growth quickly spirals out of control. often, because these genes regulate the processes that prevent most damage to genes themselves, the rate of mutations increase as one gets older, because dna damage forms a feedback loop.

usually, oncogenes are dominant, as they contain gain-of-function mutations mutations, while mutated tumor suppressors are recessive, as they contain loss-of-function mutations. each cell has two copies of a same gene, one from each parent, and under most cases gain of function mutation in one copy of a particular proto-oncogene is enough to make that gene a true oncogene, while usually loss of function mutation need to happen in both copies of a tumor suppressor gene to render that gene completely non-functional. however, cases exist in which one loss of function copy of a tumor suppressor gene can render the other copy non-functional, and this is called the dominant negative effect. this is observed in many p53 mutations.

mutation of tumor suppressor genes that are passed on to the next generation of not merely cells, but their offspring can cause increased likelihoods for cancers to be inherited. members within these families have increased incidence and decreased latency of multiple tumors. the mode of inheritance of mutant tumor suppressors is that affected member inherits a defective copy from one parent, and a normal copy from another. because mutations in tumor suppressers act in a recessive manner (note, however, there are exceptions), the loss of the normal copy creates the cancer phenotype. for instance, individuals who are heterozygous for p53 mutations are often victims of li-fraumeni syndrome, and those who are heterozygous for rb mutations develop retinoblastoma. similarly, mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli gene are linked to adenopolyposis colon cancer, with thousands of polyps in colon while young, while mutations in brca1 and brca2 lead to early onset of breast cancer.
 non-mutagenic carcinogens .
many mutagens are also carcinogens, but some carcinogens are not mutagens.  examples of carcinogens that are not mutagens include alcohol and estrogen.  these are thought to promote cancers through their stimulating effect on the rate of cell mitosis. faster rates of mitosis increasingly leave less opportunities for repair enzymes to repair damaged dna during dna replication, increasingly the likelihood of a genetic mistake. a mistake made during mitosis can lead to the daughter cells receiving the wrong number of chromosomes, which leads to aneuploidy and may lead to cancer.

 role of viral infections .
furthermore, many cancers originate from a viral infection; this is especially true in animals such as birds, but less so in humans, as viruses only responsible for 15% of human cancers. the mode of virally-induced tumors can be divided into two, acutely-transforming or slowly-transforming. in acutely transforming viruses, the viral particles carry a gene that encodes for an overactive oncogene called viral-oncogene (v-onc), and the infected cell is transformed as soon as v-onc is expressed. in contrast, in slowly-transforming viruses, the virus genome is inserted, especially as viral genome insertion is obligatory part of retroviruses, near a proto-oncogene in the host genome. the viral promoter or other transcription regulation elements in turn cause over-expression of that proto-oncogene, which in turn induces uncontrolled cellular proliferation. because viral genome insertion is not specific to proto-oncogenes and the chance of insertion near that proto-oncogene is low, slowly-transforming viruses have very long tumor latency compared to acutely-transforming virus, which already carries the viral-oncogene.

 etiology .
it is impossible to tell the initial cause for any specific cancer. however, with the help of molecular biological techniques, it is possible to characterize the mutations or chromosomal aberrations within a tumor, and rapid progress is being made in the field of predicting prognosis based on the spectrum of mutations in some cases. for example, up to half of all tumors have a defective p53 gene. this mutation is associated with poor prognosis, since those tumor cells are less likely to go into apoptosis or programmed cell death when damaged by therapy.  telomerase mutations remove additional barriers, extending the number of times a cell can divide. other mutations enable the tumor to grow new blood vessels to provide more nutrients, or to metastasize, spreading to other parts of the body.

 cancer stem cells .

a new way of looking at carcinogenesis comes from integrating the ideas of developmental biology into oncology. the cancer stem cell paradigm proposes that some or all cancers arise from transformation of adult stem cells. these cells persist as a subcomponent of the tumor and retain key stem cell properties. furthermore, the relapse of cancer and the emergence of metastasis are also attributed to these cells. the cancer stem cell hypothesis does not contradict earlier concepts of carcinogenesis. it simply points to adult stem cells as the site where the process begins.

non-mainstream theories.
there are a number of theories of carcinogenesis and cancer treatment which fall outside the mainstream of scientific opinion, due to lack of scientific rationale, logic, or evidence base. these theories may be used to justify various alternative cancer treatments. they should be distinguished from those theories of carcinogenesis which have a logical basis within mainstream cancer biology, and from which conventionally testable hypotheses can be made.

references.
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 ;
 the basic science of oncology. tannock if, hill rp et al (eds) 4th ed.2005 mcgraw-hill.
 principles of cancer biology. kleinsmith, lj (2006). pearson benjamin cummings.

see also.
cancer;
cancer research;
carcinogen;
mutagen;
oncogene;
tumor suppressor gene;







</doc>
<doc id="7443686" title="club atl\e9tico f\e9nix" nonfiltered="886" processed="873" dbindex="896">


club atl\e9tico f\e9nix are a football club from pilar in buenos aires, argentina. they currently play in primera b metropolitana, which is the regionalised fourth tier of the argentine football association league system.

the club gained their affiliation with afa in 1958, but have never played at the highest level of argentine football.

titles.

primera d metropolitana: clausura  2000;

primera d metropolitana: 2004/2005 ;

see also.
list of football clubs in argentina;
argentine football league system;

external links.
short history of the club ;
f\e9nix micro-site ;












</doc>
<doc id="840893" title="desaad" nonfiltered="887" processed="874" dbindex="897">


in dc comics' comic books, desaad is one of the followers of darkseid from the planet of apokolips in jack kirby's fourth world meta-series. 

darkseid's master torturer, his name is a play on the marquis de sade. physically, he stands at 5 feet, 11 inches, and weighs 152 pounds.

at one point desaad had an assistant named justeen, a reference to de sade's novel justine, although she bore little resemblance to the title character.

fictional biography.
desaad's first recorded appearance in the history of the dc universe
was as a hanger-on at the side of drax, heir to apokolips. he had already taken his "god-name", which he claimed to have taken in tribute to a being from the future "who has taught me much in my chosen field" (presumably the marquis).

desaad appeared to be helping drax with his attempt to master the omega force. in fact, he was plotting with drax's brother uxas. as a result drax was presumed killed, and uxas mastered the omega force, taking the god-name darkseid. desaad went on to serve as darkseid's torturer.

desaad is a sadist (as the name implies) and a coward. he is naturally treacherous, but is sufficiently afraid of darkseid that he will not turn against his master unless someone else takes the lead (and will probably switch sides again if it looks like they will fail). he spent some time posing as darkseid to keep intergang going. while darkseid had been involved with intergang as part of his search for the anti-life equation, desaad simply wanted to cause suffering.

desaad was seemingly killed during an attempt by darkseid to penetrate the source. he was subsequently found to have "bonded" with orion, causing the latter to become cruel and manipulative. they were later separated.

recently, following the destruction of apokolips in the final battle of the new gods war, desaad has taken the role of a psychotherapist, proficient in "dark side therapy." dark side therapy consists of a telephone call to darkseid, who uses the anti-life equation to destroy the humanity within the "patient." desaad used this role to manipulate shilo norman, the current mister miracle.

it was revealed later on that desaad was once a citizen of new genesis, the 'purest soul in all of new genesis' before he was corrupted.

powers and abilities.
desaad has no powers, relying instead on his intellect and darkseid's protection.  he is immortal.

other media.
desaad appeared in two of the 1980s incarnations of the superfriends cartoon, the legendary super powers show and super powers team: galactic guardians, and was voiced by rene auberjonois. the character also appeared on the 1990s  animated series, voiced by robert morse, as well as justice league where auberjonois re-assumed the role.  in the justice league episode, "twilight of the gods", desaad comments that darkseid's most recent military action to gain the anti-life equation (which left their military devastated by new genesis), was foolish, leading darkseid to kill him with the omega force, saying, "no one questions me, desaad."

bibliography.
who's who vol. 1 #5;

external links.
animated series bio at world's finest;






</doc>
<doc id="652455" title="danebury" nonfiltered="888" processed="875" dbindex="898">


danebury is an iron age hill fort in hampshire in england, around 12 miles north west of winchester. the approximately five hectare site was excavated by barry cunliffe in the 1970s. 

the hill fort was occupied from the 5th century bc until around 100 bc, and the defences were remodelled numerous times. there was a large settlement within the fort consisting initially of square four- and six-post structures, later replaced by roundhouses.








</doc>
<doc id="3043492" title="curt br\e4uer" nonfiltered="889" processed="876" dbindex="899">

curt br\e4uer (1889 1969) was a german career diplomat.

born in breslau, in what is modern-day poland, br\e4uer entered service in the german foreign ministry in 1920. at the outbreak of world war ii in september 1939, br\e4uer was posted at the german embassy in paris.  later that year, br\e4uer was named as envoy to norway, and served in oslo beginning on november 14, 1939.  br\e4uer was germany's representative in norway at the time of nazi germany's invasion of norway in april 1940.

until the invasion, the official german foreign policy was to respect norwegian neutrality, a line with which br\e4uer is said to have agreed and worked toward.  however, on the evening of april 8, 1940, the envoy received orders from berlin   he was to be hitler's representative and deliver a german ultimatum for the occupation of norway to the norwegian government the next morning.

the norwegian government refused the german demands and left the capital as it became clear that norway was becoming overrun with german troops.  in the following days, br\e4uer tried to convince the norwegian government and king haakon vii to capitulate and to name vidkun quisling as prime minister.  the norwegian government refused these demands and vowed to resist the german invasion as long as possible.

on april 16, 1940, hitler recalled br\e4uer from oslo, deciding that the norwegian resistance movement dictated that the country be administered by a more authoritarian personality. hitler named josef terboven   an enthusiastic nazi   to assume the position of reichskommissar for norway.  terboven wielded near-dictatorial powers in norway until war's end.

after his recall from norway, br\e4uer left the diplomatic service and was sent to the front as an ordinary soldier. he spent nine years as a prisoner-of-war in the soviet union.



</doc>
<doc id="7914972" title="s.s. mutlah" nonfiltered="890" processed="877" dbindex="900">
the s.s. mutlah was a 3,393-ton steamship built for the nourse line in about 1906 by charles connell & company limited, glasgow.  she had single screw, triple expansion, 425 nhp engines.

like other nourse line ships, she was primarily used for the transportation of indian indentured labourers to the colonies. details of some of these voyages are as follows:





 see also .
 indian indenture ships to fiji;
 indian indenture system;

 external links .
 geneology.com ;
 nourse line;
 indian immigrant ship list;








</doc>
<doc id="916529" title="nikolaos kaklamanakis" nonfiltered="891" processed="878" dbindex="901">





nikolaos kaklamanakis (greek:                   ) is the greek gold-medal winner who lit the olympic torch in the opening ceremony of the 2004 summer olympics in athens. he was born in athens on august 19, 1968.

one of the most popular athletes in greece, nikolaos kaklamanakis is a three-time mistral class windsurfing world champion and a gold medalist at the  1996 summer olympics in sailing.  he won silver in the event at the 2003 world championships in cadiz, spain, behind przemek miarczynski of poland. in the 2004 summer olympics in athens, kaklamanakis took the silver medal behind gal fridman of israel.

 selected achievements .


medal
event
year


gold european championship (mistral) 1994


bronze imco world championship 1995


gold australasian championship (mistral) 1995


gold imco world championship 1996


gold atlanta olympics 1996


gold athens eurolymp  1998


gold mistral world championship 2000

bronze international asa windsurfing championship 2001


gold mistral world championship 2001


gold mistral world championship 2002


silver isaf world championship 2003


silver athens olympics 2004



 external links .
biography: international sailing federation (isaf);
lighting the olympic cauldron;



|}






















</doc>
<doc id="5741783" title="25 years" nonfiltered="892" processed="879" dbindex="902">

25 years was a three and a half hour television special beginning at 7:30pm, june 1, 1985 on television new zealand's tv one channel.

the special was held to celebrate the 25th anniversary of television in new zealand and was hosted by a variety of well known new zealand celebrities, both past and present. the special was memorable for the return to tv of two tv icons - ginette mcdonald (as her alter ego lynn of tawa) and the return of the cast of south pacific television's highly successful comedy series "a week of it" starring david mcphail and jon gadsby.

at the time 25 years was the first programme to be given a 3hr time slot, although eventually it ran overtime to three and a half hours.

 dvd and video .
to this date, television new zealand has not released the special on either video or dvd. bootleg copies were sold through newspaper classifieds in the 80's, but are now days harder to find.

 book .
later in the year a highly successful book was released written by robert boyd-bell and detailed the full history of television in the country. the book also contained many photos and featured the various  network i.d.'s.

the book can be found nowadays in second hand bookstores.






</doc>
<doc id="3316487" title="robert gerringer" nonfiltered="893" processed="880" dbindex="903">
robert gerringer (may 12,1926-november 8,1989) was an american character actor perhaps best known as dr. dave woodard #2 on the soap opera cum cult tv series dark shadows, a role he played during 1967. gerringer left the show because he refused to cross the picket line during an actor's strike; he was replaced by peter turgeon. 

robert gerringer also appeared in the movie the exorcist and in other soap operas including the guiding light and the edge of night. he died from a stroke at age 64.









</doc>
<doc id="3493441" title="aigosthena" nonfiltered="894" processed="881" dbindex="904">


aigosthena(greek:          ), or porto germeno (greek:              ), also egosthena, ancient form: aegosthena was an ancient greek city of attica nw of the ancient city of megara.  it is part of the municipality of vilia and historically the northernmost of megaris (megarida) and is also located in nearby village of porto germeno (which is also known by this name) overlooking the gulf of corinth as well as the alkyonides gulf, it has a small bay located to the west named aigosthena bay.  it was built in a forested hilly area near the coast of the gulf of corinth. part of the city's walls are well-maintained until today.  it is also located 68 km nw of athens.  aigosthena are linked with roads linking to vilia and the gr-3 (athens - thiva) and south to schinos beach and to megara.

nearest places.

porto germeno;
vilia, east;
psatha;

external links.
aigosthena on culture.gr;
http://www.missouri.edu/~daw262/aigos.html ;
photos of aigosthena;
http://www.thegreektravel.com/athens/athens-porto-germeno.html;
in greek: ;
http://outopia.gr/ancient/attiki/egosthena.htm;
aigosthena - a clip from menoume ellada - ert online;
egosthena on gtp travel pages (in english and greek);








</doc>
<doc id="8905226" title="every nerve alive" nonfiltered="895" processed="882" dbindex="905">


every nerve alive is the second album by the japanese thrash metal band ritual carnage. it was released in 1999 by osmose productions.

 track listing.
  "awaiting the kill"     6:50  ;
  "8th great hell"    2:27  ;
  "death, judgement, fate"    3:35  ;
  "burning red, burn 'til death"    3:18  ;
  "end of an ace"    3:39  ;
  "world wide war"    3:30  ;
  "scars of battle"    3:37  ;
  "every nerve alive"    3:10  ;
  "the wrath"    3:48  ;
  "escape from the light"    5:43  ;
  "far east aggressors"    3:56  ;




</doc>
<doc id="1752316" title="j\fcrgen moser" nonfiltered="896" processed="883" dbindex="906">
j\fcrgen moser (1928   1999) was a german american mathematician who specialized in dynamical systems.  he received his ph.d. from the university of g\f6ttingen in 1952.  he emigrated to the united states in 1953.  he became a professor at mit and later new york university.  after 1980 he was at eth zurich.

he won the james craig watson medal in 1969 for his contributions to dynamical astronomy and the wolf prize in 1995 for his work on stability in hamiltonian systems and on nonlinear differential equations.

see also.
kolmogorov arnold moser theorem;









</doc>
<doc id="3829650" title="hyfrydol" nonfiltered="897" processed="884" dbindex="907">
hyfrydol is a welsh hymn tune which appears in a number of christian hymnals in various arrangements.  originally composed by rowland prichard in 1844, and was originally published in the composer's handbook to the lutheran hymnal cyfaill y cantorion ("the singer's friend"), the best-known arrangement is probably that by ralph vaughan williams originally for his revision of the english hymnal; vaughan williams also composed some variations on this theme.

hyfrydol has a metre of 8.7.8.7d (alternating lines of eight and seven syllables, other examples of which include blaenwern and daily, daily) and has been used as a setting for william chatterton dix's hymn "alleluia! sing to jesus!", charles wesley's "love divine, all loves excelling" and "come thou long-expected jesus" and many others.

in addition to its use as a hymn tune, hyfrydol has been arranged for brass bands and other instrumental groups.

reference.
cyberhymnal.org article on "alleluia! sing to jesus!" 





</doc>
<doc id="805857" title="infantry (computer game)" nonfiltered="898" processed="885" dbindex="908">


infantry online is a two-dimensional, isometric, multiplayer, combat, computer game utilizing complex soldier, ground vehicle and space-ship models on typically complex terrains. players may choose from a list of game zones to enter, each zone having a unique style of gameplay and many offering a wide diversity of weapons, player classes and objectives.

history.
sometime in the late 1990s, now-defunct virgin interactive entertainment (vie) began to develop a game called sniper; later renamed subspace. it has been speculated subspace was one of the major causes of vie's bankruptcy. as the project was free for many years, it was a drain on the company's resources with no actual income. some of the developers of subspace bonded together to form harmless games llc. they developed a new game engine; the project was named infantry.

the game was developed, gained a cult popularity and was picked up by brainscan development corporation, also known as brainscan interactive, as publisher. gamefan, the parent company of brainscan interactive, went bankrupt and did not pay its employees for a period of several months. rod (rodvik) humble, the lead designer of infantry, was offered a job with sony online entertainment (soe) and left harmless games. larry j. cordner (ljc) also found another job, but stayed with the development team until shortly after harmless games was bought by soe. harmless games, and its sole game, infantry, was bought by soe from brainscan interactive for an undisclosed sum. the two remaining developers, jeff petersen (programmer) and jerimy weeks (artist and zone designer), were hired by soe to continue development of the game. some time later, soe had them develop cosmic rift (cr), an offshoot of infantry meant to compete with the still popular subspace. cr had gained a small portion of infantry's and subspace's communities, but its population still paled in comparison. in october 2001, petersen was transferred to everquest 2 development and weeks later was laid off. game development stagnated. 

in may 2002, soe rehired weeks and introduced a monthly $6.95 pay-to-play system for soe's three small action games: infantry, cr and tanarus, however, both infantry and cosmic rift remain free to play with limitations. infantry's and cr's populations have since declined drastically from daily highs of thousands at a time to a mere hundred or fewer players. in october 2005, weeks was laid off again and a new developer was put to the task. hope for the game's future was questionable, as the new developer was joe nelson, whose only prior experience with infantry involved customer service duties, who held the position for only a few months.  as of may 2006 there are three soe employees delegated either full or part time to the game: bill corning, jose araiza and recently re-hired developer jerimy weeks. since the pay-to-play system, private, free servers have appeared simultaneously with the official server though mainly with new custom zones. currently, soe infantry has very little code support, and there are constantly hacks being released. following their new patch (which took almost a year)

game setting.
the time is set several centuries ahead of the present. there is a war between the government (the collective) and the various rebelling moon colonies of the outer solar system, notably the titan colony. the collective is a pure democracy; every single citizen has a voting unit in which they vote on every issue, although more often only on the issues that concern them. the rebels are mainly located in the outer colonies of the solar system and are a vast minority compared to the large populations on earth and mars. the rebels feel their colonies are being exploited for resources and labor due to the fact that they have little voice on what is decided. the citizens of the larger populations cannot understand why people would rebel from a system where everyone has a say and thus the war. titan has the largest population of the outer rim colonies and therefore the major battles are between them and the collective army. however, many colonies provide militia and able bodies to the cause of groups such as the european mercenaries. due to the chaos, many privateers have emerged, such as the morgan raiders who will throw in with anyone providing they are paid, even though they have no love for any faction.

development staff.

 lead programmer: formerly jeff petersen (aka. bagman) ;
 formerly scott mitchell;
 lead designer: formerly rod humble (aka. rodvik);
 lead designer/artist: michael collins (aka. money);
 lead artist: formerly juan sanchez (aka. tswift);
 tools programmer: formerly larry j. cordner (aka. ljc);
 gameplay adviser: corey doyle (aka. sea otter);
 brainscan producer: formerly nick fisher (aka. trixter);
 soe producer: formerly rob hill (aka. qombat);
 soe station pass csr:  formerly paul williams (aka. soepwilliams/soepy);
 formerly joe nelson (aka. no~0ne/soejoe);
 soe station pass technical moderator;
 bill corning (aka. revenant);

game zones.
capture the flag - fast-paced basing action, the most popular zone. various maps exist, including a private-team extreme form. has multiple weapons for players to purchase, allowing player customization.

rpg - role-playing. based off of a past-time zone favorite, wza (war zone alpha). ;

bug hunt - marine vs. the skrall. the collective marines attempt to extract scientific research from a small research facility on a moon inhabited by the skrall, a hostile alien race. ;

skirmish - massive team vs. team fighting. several variants exist. some include tanks and other vehicles. most employ static flags for territory holding. features more realistic settings and game physics.

gravball - sport zone. players pilot hoverbikes on a large map with various obstacles, attempting to shoot the ball over their own goal square while avoiding opponents' weapons. ;

hardcorps - an almost realistic version of war, featuring incredibly fast and invisible projectiles, like you would expect on a real battlefield. employs maps, and requires military/squad tactics to undertake victory.

boom ball x - sport zone. players play on a small, hockey-like arena and are restricted to either to aft, mid or fore sections of the field.

soccer brawl - sport zone. eleven-a-side razzle-dazzle soccer where players are allowed to body check one another. ;

ambush - fast-paced action. players use jetpacks or hoverboards to fly around collecting flags and blowing up other players.

team deathmatch - fast-paced action. players use multitudes of weapons against each other in tight corridors.

tankodrome - arcade-style play. players drive tanks, launch projectiles at other players and computer turrets to collect tokens. tokens are used to buy vehicle upgrades.

chambert's moon - a classic, king-of-the-hill slower paced zone with aliens, psionics and vehicles. uses a drastically different item set.

war zone alpha - the predecessor of rpg/eol, wza is a popular pure chaos zone that features different classes, vehicles, weapons and a less structured experience buildup system.

external links.
 infantry; official site.
 ctf players league; ctf league site.
 skirmish league; skirmish league site.
 unified skirmish league; a second skirmish league site.
 no man's land team league; a third skirmish league site.
 infantry gravball league; gravball league site.
 soccer brawl league; a soccer brawl league site.





</doc>
<doc id="1711955" title="m\e4rklin-6083" nonfiltered="899" processed="886" dbindex="909">
the m\e4rklin k83 is one of the components of the m\e4rklin digital system for controlling model trains.

the m\e4rklin k83 module allows 4 electromagnetic articles to be switched to either 'red' or 'green'. these are used for setting turnouts, signals etc.

the address of each module is set by a dip switch inside the housing.

the current that is produced is momentary - just long enough to switch the electro-magent in the item from one state to the other. permanent switching of a continuous current is handled by a separate module - the k84.





</doc>
<doc id="1291632" title="matthew turner" nonfiltered="900" processed="887" dbindex="910">
:for the football player, see matthew turner (footballer)

matthew turner (d. 1788), a liverpool physician, is considered (for example by berman, 1990) to be the author or co-author of the 1782 pamphlet, answer to dr. priestley's letters to a philosophical unbeliever, the first published work of avowed atheism in britain.   turner was also a pioneer in the use of ether for medical purposes, and wrote a pamphlet on the subject.  in a footnote, turner was the man who introduced josiah wedgwood to thomas bentley in liverpool, a friendship which led to the formation of the company that produced the famous pottery.

external links.

;

references.

berman, david (1990). a history of atheism in britain: from hobbes to russell. london: routledge. isbn 0-415-04727-7 (first published 1988);





</doc>
<doc id="1170150" title="ellen griffin" nonfiltered="901" processed="888" dbindex="911">
ellen griffith (died november 10, 2002) was the grandmother of veteran rapper ll cool j. griffith, who raised her grandson in jamaica, queens, new york, was the source of inspiration for "mama said knock you out", the title track to the rapper's 1991 grammy-winning release (see mama said knock you out), which she also featured in the music video. the song was also part of the soundtrack to the hard way, a motion picture that featured michael j. fox and james woods, along with the rapper in a supporting role.  the song "big mama (unconditional love)" from 10 is a dedication to her by ll.

she died of cancer on november 10, 2002.

external links.
week of november 16, 2002 life in legacy reference to griffith's death.
launch news service report;
mtv snippet on griffin's death;





</doc>
<doc id="6526171" title="list of people by association of southeast asian nations state" nonfiltered="902" processed="889" dbindex="912">
 brunei people;

 cambodians;

 indonesians;

 laotions;

 malaysians;

 filipinos;

 singaporeans;

 thai people;

 vietnamese;




</doc>
<doc id="6117578" title="lower machen" nonfiltered="903" processed="890" dbindex="913">
lower machen () is small hamlet of 19 houses on the a468 road at the very western edge of the city of newport. machen itself lies further west in the county borough of caerphilly.

despite its small size, lower machen holds an annual festival of chamber concerts in the 12th century church of st michael and all angels.

external links.
lower machen festival;






</doc>
<doc id="3910654" title="harald meier" nonfiltered="904" processed="891" dbindex="914">
harald meier was a german herpetologist who discovered the phelsuma pusilla hallmanni, a subspecies of geckos.








</doc>
<doc id="7729222" title="mark goldstraw" nonfiltered="905" processed="892" dbindex="915">
mark goldstraw (b. 1975) is an english murderer who was convicted on 1 november 2006 of murdering his ex-girlfriend samantha carter (aged 16), as well as her sister patricia (aged 10), brother marcus (aged 7) and 44-year-old step-father roddy hine by setting fire to their house in cheddleton, staffordshire in march 2006. 

at goldstraw's trial, it was revealed that he had already been convicted of manslaughter in 2001 after battering his ex-girlfriend to death with a mallet. he was sentenced to seven years in prison but was freed within four.

goldstraw was sentenced to life imprisonment at his murder trial and the trial judge recommended that he should serve at least 35 years before being considered for parole. this is expected to keep him behind bars until at least 2041 and the age of 66.

sources.
bbc news 1st nov 06;
bbc news 1st nov 06;
bbc news 18th oct 06;



</doc>
<doc id="4625932" title="campeonato argentino abierto de polo" nonfiltered="906" processed="893" dbindex="916">
the campeonato argentino abierto de polo (spanish for argentine polo open championship) is the most important international polo championship at club level, that takes place every years since 1893 at the catedral del polo in palermo barrio in buenos aires, argentina.

it was known as the river plate polo championship between 1893-1923, and as well as the other two main polo events in argentina (the campeonato abierto de hurlingham at the hurlingham club and the campeonato abierto del tortugas country club), the handicap of the teams must be between 28 and 40 goals. it's organised by the asociaci\f3n argentina de polo (argentine polo association)

winners.










</doc>
<doc id="1404476" title="charles green (balloonist)" nonfiltered="907" processed="894" dbindex="917">


charles green born in london 31 january 1785, died 26 march 1870, was the united kingdom's most famous balloonist of the 19th century. he experimented with coal gas as a cheaper and more readily available alternative to hydrogen for lifting power. his first ascent was in a coal gas balloon on july 19, 1821. he became a professional balloonist and had made 200 ascents by 1835. in 1836, he set a major long distance record in the balloon "royal vauxhall", flying overnight from vauxhall gardens in london to weilburg, duchy of nassau (germany) a distance of 480 miles: this record was not broken until 1907. by the time he retired in 1852, he had flown in a balloon more than 500 times.

green is credited with the invention of the trail rope as an aid to steering and landing a balloon.

a trophy named after him, the "charles green salver", is awarded by the british balloon and airship club (bbac) for exceptional flying achievements or contributions in ballooning. recipients have included brian jones and bertrand piccard for the first round-the-world balloon flight.   

see also.
timeline of aviation   1830s;
 
references.
 bacon, john m. the dominion of the air; the story of aerial navigation, chapters vi-vii, reprint. isbn 1-4065-0417-3.

external links.
british balloon and airship club, charles green salver;
f\e9d\e9ration a\e9ronautique internationale (fai), ballooning commission hall of fame;





</doc>
<doc id="1057179" title="time (pink floyd song)" nonfiltered="908" processed="895" dbindex="918">

"time" is the fourth track from british progressive rock band pink floyd's 1973 album, the dark side of the moon, and the only song on the album credited to all four members of the band. it is noted for its long introductory passage of clocks chiming and alarms ringing, recorded as a stereo test by alan parsons, not specifically for the album.

the song is a memento mori describing the phenomenon in which time seems to pass more quickly as one ages, often leading to despair in old age over missed opportunities of the past.

composition.
each clock was recorded separately in an antiques store. this is followed by an eerie two-minute passage dominated by nick mason's rototoms. with david gilmour singing lead on the verses and with rick wright singing lead on the bridges and with various female singers providing backup vocals, the lyrics of the song deal with roger waters's realization that life was not about preparing yourself for what happens next, but about grabbing control of your own destiny (he attributes his earlier ignorance of this to his mother's obsession with education). a guitar solo from gilmour provides the refrain over the same chord progressions as the verse and chorus. a reprise of the album's opener 'breathe' brings the song to a close, before it segues into "the great gig in the sky".

the song is the second longest on the dark side album, after us and them, and is renowned for gilmour's guitar solo after the first verse, which is often considered to be one of his best and among the best ever.




trivia.

 the song's opening was used as the main menu music for the pc version of destruction derby 2.
the song was covered in its entirety by the yorktown heights progressive band temporary electrostatic attraction;
this song was another successful single on the album, reaching #101 on the billboard charts.
 the beastie boys sampled time for their song "looking down the barrel of a gun", which appeared on their album paul's boutique.
the prodigy sampled the alarm bell for their tracks "claustrophobic sting" and "wake up call";
 after the clocks finish ringing, this song's tempo is exactly 120 beats per minute, meaning each beat is one half-second of real time.

 alternative and live versions .
a live version of the song can be heard on the p*u*l*s*e concert video and cd.
another live version was played on the delicate sound of thunder cd and concert video. it does not include the breathe reprise section at the end.
on the roger waters solo in the flesh: live tour dvd and cd, a version sung by him is played.

notes.












</doc>
<doc id="749881" title="basilica di santa maria della salute" nonfiltered="909" processed="896" dbindex="919">

the basilica di santa maria della salute (basilica of st mary of health/salvation), commonly known simply as the salute, is one of the largest churches of venice and has the status of a minor basilica. it stands at the junction between the grand canal and the bacino di san marco on the lagoon.

in october 1630, the senate decreed that if the city was delivered from the currently raging plague that had killed about a third of venice's population, then a new church would be built and dedicated to the virgin mary. baldassare longhena, then only 26 years old, was selected to design the new church. it was finally completed in 1681, the year before longhena's death.

every year, on 21 november, the feast of the presentation of the virgin, the city's officials processed from san marco to the salute for a service of thanksgiving for deliverance from the plague. this involved crossing the grand canal on a specially constructed pontoon bridge. the festa della madonna della salute is still a major event in venice.

the salute is a vast, octagonal building built on a platform made of 100,000 wooden piles. it is constructed of istrian stone and marmorino (brick covered with marble dust). while its external decoration and location capture the eye, the internal design itself is quite remarkable. the octagonal church, while ringed by a classic vocabulary, hearkens to byzantine designs such as the basilica of san vitale. the interior has its architectural elements demarcated by the coloration of the material, and the central nave with its ring of saints atop a balustrade is a novel design. it is full of marian symbolism - the great dome represents her crown, the cavernous interior her womb, the eight sides the eight points on her symbolic star.

the salute is part of the parish of the gesuati. 

works of art.
the altarpiece of the baroque high altar, designed by longhena himself, is a byzantine madonna and child of the 12th or 13th century.

tintoretto contributed marriage at cana in the great sacristy, which includes a self-portrait.

the statuary at the high altar of the queen of heaven expelling the plague(1670) was a theatrical baroque masterpiece by the flemish sculptor josse de corte.

the most represented artist is titian, who painted st mark enthroned with ss cosmas, damian, sebastian and roch, the altarpiece of the great sacristy, as well as ceiling paintings of david and goliath, abraham and isaac and cain and abel, and eight tondi of the doctors of the church and the evangelists, all in the great sacristy, and pentecost in the nave.

gallery.


external links.


satellite image from google maps;
wikimapia entry;













</doc>
<doc id="52588" title="56 bc" nonfiltered="910" processed="897" dbindex="920">



events.
by place.
rome.
consuls: gnaeus cornelius lentulus marcellinus and lucius marcius philippus.
clodia accuses her former lover marcus caelius rufus of trying to poison her. the trial ends with the defendant acquitted thanks to the pro caelio speech of marcus tullius cicero. there is no further mention of the previously famous clodia.
gallic war:
julius caesar defeats the veneti of brittany: the most decisive battle is the naval action in the battle of gulf of morbihan.

births.
tacitus, roman historian (approximate date).

deaths.
lucullus, consul.
tigranes the great, king of armenia.











































</doc>
<doc id="273862" title="nuclear blast" nonfiltered="911" processed="898" dbindex="921">


 for information related to weapons, see nuclear explosion.;

nuclear blast is an independent record label and mail order record distributor with subsidiaries in germany, the united states and brazil.  the record label was founded in 1987 by markus staiger in germany. originally releasing hardcore punk records, the label moved on to releasing albums by melodic death metal, grindcore, power metal and black metal bands, as well as tribute albums. nuclear blast is widely respected as the top label for the melodic metal scene, along with fellow non-riaa label century media.  the label's main office is in donzdorf, g\f6ppingen.

music.
at their inception, nuclear blast focused on hardcore records, with bands like agnostic front, attitude and stark raving mad.  they progressed toward metal in 1990, however, currently signing and distributing dozens of artists such as dimmu borgir and hypocrisy.

they have also released a series of compilation albums called "death is just the beginning". music from the nuclear blast label was featured in the 2005 movie alone in the dark.

for all nuclear blast artists, former and current, see list of nuclear blast artists

history.
nuclear blast was formed in 1987 after founder markus staiger traveled  throughout the united states for four weeks and saw a gig of his favorite band blast.  the label was original title simply "blast", but was soon changed to nuclear blast.  the first release was a vinyl compilation senseless death (nb 001) featuring us hardcore bands like attitude, sacred denial, impulse manslaughter and others.  the first edition of 1000 copies was sold out after one year.

nuclear blast started signing grindcore after staiger discovered las vegas grindcore band righteous pigs.  this followed with releases by atrocity, master and incubus, which all sold over 30,000 copies.  the grindcore explosion is considered a landmark in the label's history, gaining the label worldwide attention.

in the early nineties, black metal became highly popular in the european underground, and nuclear blast signed many bands.  many of them, such as dimmu borgir and dissection, are still signed to nuclear blast.  the black metal trend became increasingly popular, and by 1996, several nuclear blast-signed artists were entering european charts.  by the end of 1997, nuclear blast had 20 employees and mailed out a 100 page catalogue quarterly to 50 countries. 

in the late 1990s and early 2000s, they expanded into a direction of power metal, recording the bands such as hammerfall and the power metal innovators helloween. nuclear blast began to record in 2000s some finnish bands, such as stratovarius and sonata arctica, and the german  band blind guardian, expanding their style further into different subgenres of metal.

nuclear blast remains one of the most popular and successful independent record labels to this day, with chart-topping releases and continual growth in terms of music and business.

 see also .
 list of record labels;
 list of nuclear blast artists;

external links.
 official site;























</doc>
<doc id="485380" title="hms perseus (r51)" nonfiltered="912" processed="899" dbindex="922">


hms perseus (r51) was a colossus-class light fleet aircraft carrier of the royal navy. she was laid down by vickers armstrong on the tyne on 1 january 1943, launched on 26 march 1944, and commissioned on 19 october 1945, thus missing world war ii.

as with pioneer, the design of perseus was altered during its construction to that of an aircraft maintenance ship. in 1949, perseus served as a trial vessel for one of the most important inventions for all conventional modern aircraft carriers, the steam catapult. again paralleling pioneer, perseus became a ferry carrier in 1953. however, perseus lasted a few years longer in service, undergoing a refit in 1955 before entering reserve in 1957 and being sold for scrap in 1958.

see hms perseus for other ships of this name.

 external link .
maritimequest hms perseus photo gallery;











</doc>
<doc id="4376189" title="nehemiah odhiambo" nonfiltered="913" processed="900" dbindex="923">

nehemiah odhiambo (b. 1984)is a kenyan cricketer. he has played one one-day international for kenya. he is the brother of cricketer lameck onyango


references.
;









</doc>
<doc id="4928873" title="ailsa shipbuilding company" nonfiltered="914" processed="901" dbindex="924">
ailsa shipbuilding company was a shipbuilding company based in troon, scotland. the company was founded in 1885 by archibland kennedy, the 3rd marquess of ailsa. 

 spirit of the scotia .
the ailsa yard fitted out the polar exploration ship scotia for the scottish national antarctic expedition of 1902-04. the scotia sailed from troon for the south atlantic on 30 october, 1902. the 100th anniversary of the sailing of the scotia was celebrated in []2002]]. 

 wartime service .
during the first world war, the shipyard built the royal navy's first paddle minesweeper of the bird class.  during the second world war, ailsa built vessels for the navy, including several bangor class minesweepers.

 later years .
brian donohoe, member of parliament for ayrshire central was an apprentice fitter and turner at the ailsa shipyard from 1965, before becoming a draughtsman in 1969. ailsa stopped large-scale shipbuilding in 1988 and finally closed in 2003. the company's papers are archived at glasgow university.

 sources .
 janes fighting ships 1919;
 the decline of shipbuilding on the clyde;
 snae centenary;

 external links .
 glasgow university archive services;









</doc>
<doc id="2761620" title="l\e9lex" nonfiltered="915" processed="902" dbindex="925">


l\e9lex is a commune in the french d\e9partement of ain.












</doc>
<doc id="2446684" title="susan fish" nonfiltered="916" processed="903" dbindex="926">
susan fish (march 21, 1945 ) is a former canadian politician.  she served in the legislative assembly of ontario from 1981 to 1987, and was a cabinet minister in the governments of bill davis and frank miller.

fish was born in rio de janeiro, brazil and raised in new york city.  she was educated at st. lawrence college and new york university.  she moved to toronto as an adult and worked on the staff of david crombie, the pro-reform mayor of toronto. fish was elected to toronto city council as a reform alderman in 1976, and served until 1981.  

like crombie, she was a red tory. she ran for bill davis' progressive conservative party of ontario in the 1981 ontario election and was elected as member of provincial parliament (mpp) for the st. george constituency in downtown toronto.  shortly after her election, she participated in a rally at queen's park, toronto to support the inclusion of sexual identity in the ontario human rights code.

on july 6, 1983, she was promoted to the davis cabinet as minister of citizenship and culture. she supported her friend larry grossman in his unsuccessful bid to succeed davis in 1985, and was dropped from cabinet on february 8 of that year after right-winger frank miller was elected tory leader in the january 1985 leadership convention.  

fish was re-elected with a reduced plurality in the 1985 election and was brought back into government on may 17, 1985 as minister of the environment in miller's short-lived minority government. after the tories were defeated by a motion of non-confidence in june 1985, she continued to serve in the legislature as an opposition mpp.  she was defeated in the 1987 ontario election by liberal attorney-general ian scott, by a margin of 8,055 votes in the redistributed constituency of st. george st. david. 

she returned to politics in 1991, when she ran for mayor of toronto against jack layton, june rowlands and betty disero. fearing a layton victory, the business and development community consolidated its support and funding behind rowlands as the "anybody but layton" candidate, forcing disero and fish to drop out of the race due to lack of resources. 

she currently serves on the ontario municipal board, on the board of harbourfront corp., the metro action committee on public violence against women and children, and casey house.  

see also.
toronto municipal election, 1991;







</doc>
<doc id="2721096" title="for sentimental reasons" nonfiltered="917" processed="904" dbindex="927">

for sentimental reasons is an american nostalgia band and have usually played as a sextet of three men and three women, the women occasionally acting in the role of the andrews sisters, each wearing a red, white or blue dress. they typically play songs of the world war ii years, often at reunions of war veterans. they have played at venues across the usa and costa rica, sometimes on ships or military bases associated with the war years.

formed in 1994, for sentimental reasons chose 1944 (fifty years earlier) as a pivotal moment for their selection of songs and material. 

members.
 bob devivo;
 lisa feltner;
 jennifer gasser;
 david harrison;
 jenna wims hashway jenna was miss rhode island 1988 and competed in the miss america pageant.
 celeste mcclain;
 sean roper;
 doug shapiro;
 lisa marie ricci stearns;
 erin eileen vadala;

discography.
sentimental swing (original music, 2003);

 external links .
 band website;
 miss america newsletter article;






</doc>
<doc id="3875476" title="list of scheduled castes in rajasthan" nonfiltered="918" processed="905" dbindex="928">


scheduled castes and scheduled tribes are communities that are accorded special status by the constitution of india. 

this is a list of the scheduled castes in the indian state of rajasthan.

adi dharmi;
aheri;
badi;
bagri, bagdi;
bairwa, berwa;
bajgar;
balai;
bansphor, bansphod;
baori;
bargi, vargi, birgi;
bawaria;
bedia, beria;
bhand;
bhangi,  chura,  mehtar,  olgana,  rukhi,  malkana,  halalkhor, lalbegi, balmiki, valmiki, korar, zadmalli;
bidakia;
bola;
chamar, bhambhi, bambhi, bhambi,  jatia,  jatav,  jatava,  mochi, raidas, rohidas, regar, raigar,  ramdasia,  asadaru, asodi, chamadia, chambhar, chamgar,  haralayya,  harali,  khalpa,  machigai,  mochigar, majar, madig, telugu  mochi,   kamati mochi,  ranigar,  rohit,  samgar;
chandal;
dabgar;
dhanak, dhanuk;
dhankia;
dhobi;
dholi;
dome, dom;
gandia;
garancha, gancha;
garo, garura, gurda, garoda;
gavaria;
godhi;
jingar;
kalbelia, sapera;
kamad, kamadia;
kanjar, kunjar;
kapadia sansi;
khangar;
khatik;
koli, kori;
kooch band, kuchband;
koria;
madari, bazigar;
mahar, taral, dhegumegu;
mahyavanshi, dhed, dheda, vankar, maru vankar;
majhabi;
mang, matang, minimadig;
mang garodi, mang garudi;
megh, meghval, meghwal, menghvar;
mehar;
nat, nut;
pasi;
rawal;
salvi;

santia, satia;
sarbhangi;
sargara;
singiwala;
thori, nayak;
tirgar, tirbanda;
turi;

see also.
scheduled castes and tribes;

source.
the constitution(scheduled castes) order, 1950 1 (c.o.19) part xv;




</doc>
<doc id="75610" title="benjamin harrison v" nonfiltered="919" processed="906" dbindex="929">

benjamin harrison v (april 5, 1726   april 24, 1791) was an american planter and revolutionary leader from charles city county, virginia. he was educated at the college of william and mary and was, perhaps, the first figure in the harrison family to gain national attention. harrison was a representative for surry county, virginia (1756 - 1758) and charles city county (1766 - 1776) to the house of burgesses. he was a virginia delegate to the continental congress from 1774 to 1777, signed the declaration of independence, and was governor of virginia from 1781 to 1784.  he again ran for the state legislature but was defeated by john tyler, sr., father of future president, john tyler.  he was elected from a neighboring district, however, and served until his death.

he was son of benjamin harrison iv and anne carter, and grandson of robert carter i; his cousin was the plantation owner robert carter. his son william henry harrison and great-grandson benjamin harrison would both become president of the united states. besides william, their youngest child, they had six other children; elizabeth, anna, benjamin vi, lucy, carter, and sarah.  his brother-in-law was speaker of the house of burgesses, peyton randolph, who was first cousin once removed of thomas jefferson. a great-nephew of a wife of his brother nathaniel harrison was edmund ruffin. benjamin harrison v's wife's name was elizabeth bassett; a brother of elizabeth named burwell bassett married anna maria danbridge-a sister of martha washington-wife of president george washington, they were married until his death in 1791. burwell and anna maria's son burwell bassett was a successful congressman.



harrison lived all his life at berkeley plantation, the harrison family home in virginia, and his children were born there.

harrison county, west virginia was formed in 1784 and named in governor harrison's honor.

external links.
harrison s congressional biography;
biography by rev. charles a. goodrich, 1856;





















</doc>
<doc id="3904446" title="hinako shijou" nonfiltered="920" processed="907" dbindex="930">

hinako shijou is a character in the king of fighters series.

 history .

hinako was a junior high school girl who preferred to spend her free time practicing a sport at school. among the most popular female sports were: volleyball, gymnastics, and softball.  hinako, a
passionate young woman with lots of incredible dreams, was a different case. she has decided to practice a traditional japanese sport, only practiced by large, heavy men: sumo.
	
after hinako first joined a prestigious ladies-only school, the expected pressure for such institutions instantly fell upon her. not only was she demanded good grades and exceptional behavior, she also had to be the first in her class in any sport. she was offered many different sports, but none of them raised hinako's attention. that is, until she visisted a sumo arena.
	
once she saw a sumo match, hinako's world turned around completely. sumo was an art in itself, much more than any other martial art. she realized that sumo should not only be practiced by enormous men, but also normal women could be able to exceed themselves in the practice of this art. hinako decided she would restore the grace and beauty that sumo is supposed to represent.
	
back in her school, hinako wanted to form a sumo club, but everybody just laughed at her, and deemed her as a crazy brat. sumo was just out of the question for the refined and delicate ladies of her school. hinako didn't bother to hear any reasons, as her mind was already decided. everyday she practiced the arts of sumo, and instead of gaining weight and increasing her rather small girth, she decided to train her arms and legs to be able to support the weight of any huge sumo wrestler. after all, it
wasn't the size that counted, but the refinement of the technique that mattered.
	
after a long period of training, hinako decided to prove her worth as
a sumo wrestler. after trying (and failing) to convince her school's superiors to show her fellow students the beauty of sumo, she decided to go to an audition, and defeated yuri sakazaki. mai shiranui, kasumi todoh and yuri sakazaki considered hinako worthy enough to join their team and participate in the king of fighters 2000 tournament.   hinako also participated on the same team in the king of fighters 2001, but with li xiangfei replacing yuri sakazaki, who left for the art of fighting team to comfort robert garcia. 
trivia.
 in the king of fighters : maximum impact 2, one of lilly kane's extra outfit g is hinako shijou.
 ironically enough, lilly is hinako's alternate striker in kof 2000.
 hinako can be seen in the background of a certain kofxi stage standing near leona.
 during hinako's kof 2003 appearance, she possessed a technique which parodied fellow videogame sumo-wrestler e.honda of the street fighter series.  she attempts his famed sumo head-butt attack, but ends up falling flat on her face. ;

 external links .
 the king of fighters 10th anniversary website;








</doc>
<doc id="7826712" title="bird machine company" nonfiltered="921" processed="908" dbindex="931">
 
history

bird machine company can trace its origin to a partnership established by charles sumner bird in the early 1900 s. the first product, the bird rotary paper screen, was a major contribution   
in the advancement for stock cleaning in paper mills. the company was incorporated in 1909. bird soon expanded to a broad line of equipment for stock preparation and cleaning in the pulp and paper industry, as well as significant accessory equipment used in the making and finishing of paper and paperboard. 

the company established a broad line of centrifugal and filtration equipment for liquid/solids separation in 1932. the significant development was the patented design of the first planetary gear unit applied to centrifugal equipment. this patent was issued in june, 1934 and formed the foundation for the design utilized in the bird\ae solid bowl and screen bowl centrifuges and paved the way for the development and application of decanter centrifuges into the process industry. 

in the early 1940 s, frank young of bird machine company patented the bird-young  filter. this fast, efficient filter quickly found applications in the chemical and pharmaceutical markets. the bird-young filter can efficiently separate and wash solids in a machine that is a fraction of the size of conventional rotary vacuum-drum filter. 

in 1964, the company launched a major program of plant and facilities expansion at south walpole, massachusetts, usa headquarters.  this policy of providing new facilities and equipment has continued.  today, this headquarters facility includes a complete analytical and pilot scale laboratory, a customer and employee training complex, offices and manufacturing. the 300,000 square foot manufacturing complex includes cnc machine tools, fabrication, assembly and test resources. 

in 1965, bird machine company of canada, limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of bird machine company, was activated in montreal. as our canadian operation grew, the company expanded further by relocating the manufacturing plant to saskatoon in 1967. 

during the 1970 s bird initiated an aggressive program of providing local sales, service and manufacturing to support our customers. 

in 1989, bird machine company was acquired by baker hughes, incorporated, a diversified oil field services company based in houston, texas. 

in 1996, ketema process equipment company of santee, california, was purchased by baker hughes and merged into bird machine company. the acquisition of ketema provided bird with an entr\e9e into the pharmaceutical and fine chemical market segments with batch products such as the tolhurst\ae and mark iii\ae centrifuges, process 2000\ae vertical peeler centrifuge, and niagara\ae and mavadisc\ae filters.  

on july 7, 1997, baker hughes, incorporated announced the completion of the acquisition of the environmental technology division of deutz ag that consisted of the khd centrifuge, filtration and thermal product line located in cologne,germany, and the r&b filter press operation based in wuppertal. 

although the product lines of bird and khd were similar (khd was a former licensee of bird), this acquisition provided bird with a significant market share in the worldwide municipal market, a much stronger presence in europe and southern africa as well as the premier filter press product line. shortly after the acquisition, the r&b operation was relocated to k\f6ln. 

in october 1998, bird machine company combined resources with two other baker hughes companies to form baker process. 

in june 2001, baker process was realigned into the three former legacy companies. 

in october 2003 bird machine was acquired by andritz.* *

</doc>
<doc id="803681" title="pandion ii" nonfiltered="922" processed="909" dbindex="932">
in greek mythology, pandion ii was son and heir of cecrops ii, king of athens. and his wife metiadusa.  he was exiled from athens by the sons of his uncle metion who sought to put metion on the throne. pandion fled to megara where he married pylia, daughter of king pylas. later, pylas went into voluntary exile to messenia, because he had killed his uncle, bias. pylas then arranged for his son-in-law to be king of megara. 

pylia bore him four sons, he became father of aegeus, pallas, nisos and lykos.  when pandion died at megara, nisus succeeded him as king.  after this death his other  sons returned to athens and drove out the sons of metion, putting aegeus on the throne.  

some scholars believe that pandion ii was a figure invented to fill a gap in the chronology of athens' mythical rulers.  pausanias calls him the father of procne and philomela, who are the daughters of pandion i, which provides some support for this view.











</doc>
<doc id="6566736" title="point no point" nonfiltered="923" processed="910" dbindex="933">
point no point (coordinates s.27;t.28n;r.2e) is an outcropping of land on the northeast point of the kitsap peninsula in washington, the united states. it was the location of the signing of the point no point treaty. it was named by charles wilkes during his 1841 expedition of puget sound. named after point no point on the hudson river (which is also called dietrick's hook), the point is home to the point no point lighthouse. 

wilkes likely gave the point its name as a result of a geological optical illusion. from the north and south, point no point appears to be a narrow spit of land, jutting into puget sound. however, viewed straight on from the east, the point vanishes.




</doc>
<doc id="6446206" title="torat shraga" nonfiltered="924" processed="911" dbindex="934">

yeshivat torat shraga (or yeshivas toras shraga) is a post-high school yeshiva in bayit vegan, jerusalem, israel. rabbi avishai david is the rosh yeshiva. it is located on the yeshiva university israel campus and conducts its torah study in the beis medrash with the yeshiva university gruss kollel.

the yeshiva works hand and hand with eit lilmod, a learning program, which combines learning and community service, for those who find a full day learning to strenuouse. 

the yeshiva opened in 2000 with only a few students, and by 2006 had 70 first year students, 24 second year students and 6 madrichim ("counselors").

external link.
yeshivat torat shraga;






</doc>
<doc id="208138" title="the necessity of atheism" nonfiltered="925" processed="912" dbindex="935">
the necessity of atheism is a treatise on atheism by percy bysshe shelley, published anonymously in 1811 while he was a student at university college, oxford. a copy was sent as a pamphlet to all heads of oxford colleges at the university. the content was so shocking to the authorities that he was expelled for not admitting authorship, together with his friend and fellow student, thomas jefferson hogg.

a revised and expanded version was printed in 1813.

a representative quote:
"if he is infinitely good, what reason should we have to fear him? if he is infinitely wise, why should we have doubts concerning our future? if he knows all, why warn him of our needs and fatigue him with our prayers? if he is everywhere, why erect temples to him? if he is just, why fear that he will punish the creatures that he has filled with weaknesses? if grace does everything for them, what reason would he have for recompensing them? if he is all-powerful, how offend him, how resist him? if he is reasonable, how can he be angry at the blind, to whom he has given the liberty of being unreasonable? if he is immovable, by what right do we pretend to make him change his decrees? if he is inconceivable, why occupy ourselves with him? if he has spoken, why is the universe not convinced? if the knowledge of a god is the most necessary, why is it not the most evident and the clearest?";
 references .

 albery, john, et al., shelley and univ. 1810 1811, university college, oxford, 20 june 1992. (papers delivered by the master and three fellows of university college at a seminar to commemorate the bicentenary of shelley's birth.);

 shelley, percy bysshe, the necessity of atheism and other essays. prometheus books (the freethought library),  1993. isbn 0-87975-774-4.

external links.

online text of the 1813 version;
1880 version;









</doc>
<doc id="4819850" title="tule perch" nonfiltered="926" processed="913" dbindex="936">


the tule perch hysterocarpus traskii is a surfperch (embiotocidae) native to the rivers and estuaries of central california, united states of america. it is the sole member of its genus, and the only freshwater surfperch.

the tule perch is small, at most 15 cm in length, and deep-bodied, with a definite hump shape between the head and the dorsal fin. color is variable, with a dark back that may have a bluish or purplish cast, and a whitish or yellowish belly. the sides may have a pattern of narrow or wide bars; the frequency of barred patterns varies according to subspecies. the dorsal fin has a noticeable ridge of scales running along its base, and consists of 15-19 spines followed by 9-15 soft rays. the anal fin has 3 spines and 20-16 soft rays, while the pectoral fins have 17-19 rays.

they are fish of the lowlands, inhabiting lakes, sloughs, streams, and rivers, generally in areas with beds of vegetation or overhangs. they generally gather in groups, sometimes in large numbers. their diet is primarily small invertebrates sucked up from the bottom or picked from the midwater column.

the tule perch occurs in three separate areas in california, which have become differentiated into subspecies:

 hysterocarpus traskii traskii originally occurred throughout the sacramento river-san joaquin river and out into the estuaries around san francisco bay, and is still common as far north as the pit river, although it has mostly disappeared from the san joaquin basin. the only unbarred fish occur in this subspecies, about 43% existing in this color pattern.

 hysterocarpus traskii lagunae, the clear lake tule perch, is native to clear lake and the two blue lakes. although threatened by alien fish introductions and loss of habitat, it remains common in the lake. a broad-barred color pattern is common only in this subspecies, at 27% of individuals.

 hysterocarpus traskii pomo, the russian river tule perch, occurs only in the russian river and the lower parts of its tributaries.

the formal description of the tule perch was first read by w. p. gibbons at a meeting of the california academy of natural sciences on may 15, 1854, and then published in the san francisco newspaper the daily placer times and transcript on may 18, making it a rare case of a new species being published in a newspaper rather than book or scientific journal. gibbons chose the genus name hysterocarpus "womb-fruit" referring to the livebearing common to all surfperches, and traskii (sometimes seen as traski) in honor of j. b. trask who sent gibbons the first specimens of this fish.

references.
 ;
 peter b. moyle, inland fishes of california (university of california press, 2002), pp. 424-428;
 ;



</doc>
<doc id="5882689" title="rebels of the neon god" nonfiltered="927" processed="914" dbindex="937">

rebels of the neon god (taiwanese: ch'ing shaonien ne cha, literally teenaged nezha) is a 1992 taiwanese film by tsai ming-liang.  it is his first full-length film.  it tells two stories of taipei youth.  one details alienated buxiban student hsiao kang (lee) and his troubled interactions with his family.  the other shows two petty hoods ah tze and ah bing, along with ah kuei, tze's erstwhile girlfriend.  an idle act of violence brings the two groups into collision, and an act of revenge at the end completes the circle.  it is a story of troubled youth, dissatisfaction, and the separation that urban life brings about.  

much of rebels of the neon god is filmed in various arcades and malls in taipei and on the streets of the city with hand-held cameras.  it is filmed in a much more naturalistic manner than some of tsai's later work.

it won golden horse awards for best original score and the prize of the city of torino for best film at the torino international festival of young cinema. 

trivia.

the taiwanese title refers to nezha, a powerful child god in chinese classical mythology who was born into a human family. nezha is impulsive and disobedient. he tries to kill his father, but is brought under control when a taoist immortal (nezha's spiritual mentor) gives the father a miniature pagoda that enables him to control his rebellious son. this resonates in the film a number of ways: lee's mother believes that he is nezha reincarnated, and tze and bing try to pawn off some stolen goods to an arcade proprieter named nezha. before the pawning of the stolen goods, lee vandalizes tze's motorcycle, including graffiti stating "here is nezha.";

note: there is more than one current pronunciation of the name of the folk deity nezha, and the name is also subject to the multiple systems (and non-systems) of romanizing chinese. it is sometimes spelled nazha, nacha, na cha, or nuo zha. 
external links.
;








</doc>
<doc id="132567" title="green township, forest county, pennsylvania" nonfiltered="928" processed="915" dbindex="938">

green township is a township in forest county, pennsylvania, united states. the population was 397 at the 2000 census.

geography.
according to the united states census bureau, the township has a total area of 110.1 km\b2 (42.5 mi\b2).  109.2 km\b2 (42.2 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.8 km\b2 (0.3 mi\b2) of it (0.75%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census2 of 2000, there were 397 people, 162 households, and 115 families residing in the township.  the population density was 3.6/km\b2 (9.4/mi\b2).  there were 1,183 housing units at an average density of 10.8/km\b2 (28.0/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the township was 98.74% white, 0.25% native american, and 1.01% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 0.50% of the population.

there were 162 households out of which 27.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.9% were married couples living together, 4.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 28.4% were non-families. 22.8% of all households were made up of individuals and 11.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.45 and the average family size was 2.91.

in the township the population was spread out with 22.7% under the age of 18, 4.5% from 18 to 24, 27.0% from 25 to 44, 30.0% from 45 to 64, and 15.9% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 42 years. for every 100 females there were 97.5 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 104.7 males.

the median income for a household in the township was $28,594, and the median income for a family was $34,688. males had a median income of $28,750 versus $23,500 for females. the per capita income for the township was $15,725.  about 12.9% of families and 10.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 6.6% of those under age 18 and 9.4% of those age 65 or over.






</doc>
<doc id="1138447" title="rita buglass gluck" nonfiltered="929" processed="916" dbindex="939">
rita buglass gluck, co-writer (composed by diane martin of the "these green mountains" song, official state song for vermont.






</doc>
<doc id="1903502" title="cjay-fm" nonfiltered="930" processed="917" dbindex="940">
cjay is a rock music radio station in calgary, alberta that broadcasts on 92.1 fm. owned by standard broadcasting, cjay operates repeater transmitters located in banff, alberta and invermere, british columbia (99.7 fm). cjay first broadcast on june 1, 1977, and has maintained a consistent rock format through the years, varying only the mix of current and classic rock. the station plays an active rock format, featuring current artists such as coldplay, audioslave, u2 and green day and "classic" (1970s, 1980s, 1990s) artists such as pink floyd, tragically hip, metallica and led zeppelin.

in addition to being one of the longest-running radio stations in calgary, cjay-92 also draws one of the larger audiences, typically finishing in the top seven stations with a male-heavy, white trash audience. the most notable show is the morning forbez and friendz show, hosted by disc jockey/hack gerry forbes (age: 82), with long-running guests. it features comedy and contests in the style of a shock jock show, although it is milder than most american shock jocks.

during the late 1970's dieter staschow produced and hosted the program "stereotypes", which ran daily during the 6-7pm slot. though crtc mandated, the attention to detail and research that dieter staschow undertook producing the show made it a success and was for many younger rock fans a great source of information. each show featured a specific group or artist and through music and introspective facts and sometimes obscure details, dieter would weave remarkable rock and roll radio documentaries. around 1987 norm edwards joined cjay from chqr 810am (later qr770) and ckxl 1140am, where he had held an amazing 30 point share during the mid 1970s, norm edwards kept his morning show until succumbing to cancer in 1991. 

in 2007 cjay will celebrate its 30th birthday. 

from november 12, 1960 to june 1, 1973, cjay was also the call sign of a ctv-affiliated television station in winnipeg. the station has since changed its call letters to cky.

cjay's slogan is "calgary's best rock. (sometimes)"

 external links .
 cjay92 web site;
 history of cjay92;
 canadian broadcast standards council 2004 decision against cjay;
 recent (2005) radio ratings for major canadian markets;









</doc>
<doc id="353844" title="new zealand house of representatives" nonfiltered="931" processed="918" dbindex="941">

the new zealand house of representatives is the legislature of new zealand.  it is a component of the new zealand parliament.

the house of representatives is a democratically elected body, usually consisting of 120 members (currently 121 due to an overhang), who are known as members of parliament. members are elected for limited terms, holding office until parliament is dissolved (a maximum of three years).

new zealand essentially follows the westminster system of government, and is governed by a cabinet and prime minister chosen by the house of representatives.

the house of representatives was established by the british new zealand constitution act 1852 which established a bicameral legislature, but the upper house, the legislative council, was abolished in 1951 so parliament is now unicameral. parliament received full control over all new zealand affairs in 1947 with the passage of the statute of westminster adoption act.

title.

the official title of the new zealand house of representatives was originally the general assembly until 1986 when it became the new zealand house of representatives.  it is commonly, but incorrectly, referred to as 'parliament' (the term 'parliament' encompasses both the monarch and the house of representatives).

members of parliament.

the house of representatives takes the british house of commons as its model. it normally consists of 120 members, known as "members of parliament" or mps. until 1907 they had the title of 'members of the house of representatives' or mhrs (parliamentary and executive titles act 1907, passed when new zealand became a dominion). seats in the debating chamber form a horseshoe pattern, with members of the governing party or coalition sitting on the right hand of the speaker and members of the opposition sitting opposite. the speaker of the house of representatives acts as the presiding officer. 

the executive branch of the new zealand government (the cabinet) draws its membership exclusively from the house of representatives, based on which party or parties can claim a majority. the prime minister (pm) leads the government: the governor-general appoints the prime minister from a party or from a coalition which appears to have enough support in the house to govern. this support is immediately tested through a motion of confidence. the current government is a coalition between labour and the progressive party; the prime minister is helen clark. the leader of the opposition is the leader of the largest opposition party. currently the leader of the opposition is john key of the national party.

for information on current members of parliament, see 48th new zealand parliament.

elections.

see: electoral system of new zealand

election to the house is by the mixed member proportional (mmp) electoral system, which provides for proportional representation. the mmp system means that there are usually several parties present in the house   at present, there are eight. the mmp system replaced the old "first-past-the-post" system after a referendum in 1993. the first mmp vote was at the 1996 election.
last election results.


passage of legislation.
the new zealand parliament's model for passing acts of parliament is similar (but not identical) to that of other westminster system governments.

laws are initially proposed to the house of representatives as bills. they become acts after being approved three times by house votes and then receiving the royal assent from the governor-general. the majority of bills are promulgated by the government of the day (that is, the party or parties that have a majority in the house). it is rare for government bills to be defeated, indeed the first to be defeated in the twentieth century was in 1998. it is also possible for individual mps to promote their own bills, called member's bills   these are usually put forward by opposition parties, or by mps who wish to deal with a matter that parties do not take positions on.  local government and private individuals (for $2000 and only affecting themselves) may also bring forward legislation.

first reading.
the first stage of the process is the first reading. the mp introducing the bill (often a minister) will give a detailed speech on the bill as a whole. debate on the bill generally lasts two hours, with 12 mps making ten-minute speeches (although they can split their speaking time with another mp) on the bill's general principles. speaking slots are allocated based on the size of each party, with different parties using different methods to distribute their slots among their mps.

the mp introducing the bill will generally make a recommendation that the bill be considered by an appropriate select committee (see below). sometimes, it will be recommended that a special committee be formed, usually when the bill is particularly important or controversial. the house then votes as to whether the bill should be sent to the committee for deliberation. it is not uncommon for a bill to be voted to the select committee stage even by parties which do not support it   since select committees can recommend amendments to bills, parties will often not make a final decision on whether to back a bill until the second reading.

select committee stage.
the select committee will scrutinise the bill, going over it in more detail than can be achieved by the whole membership of the house. the public can also make submissions to select committees, offering support, criticism, or merely comments. the select committee stage is seen as increasingly important today   in the past, the governing party generally dominated select committees, making the process something of a rubber stamp, but in the multi-party environment there is significant scope for real debate. select committees frequently recommended changes to bills, with prompts for change coming from the mps on the committee, officials who advise the committee, and members of the public. when a majority of the committee is satisfied with the bill, the committee will report back to the house on it. unless parliament grants an extension, the time limit for select committee deliberations is six months or whatever deadline was set by the house when the bill was referred.

second reading.
the second reading, like the first, generally consists of a two-hour debate in which mps make ten-minute speeches. again, speaking slots are allocated to parties based on their size. in theory, speeches should relate to the principles and objects of the bill, and also to the consideration and recommendations of the select committee and issues raised in public submissions. parties will usually have made their final decision on a bill after the select committee stage, and will make their views clear during the second reading debates. at the conclusion of the second reading debate, the house votes on whether to accept any amendments recommended by the select committee by majority (unanimous amendments are not subjected to this extra hurdle).

the government (usually through the minister of finance) has the power (given by the house's standing orders) to veto any bill (or amendment to a bill) that would have a major impact on the government's budget and expenditure plans. this veto could be invoked at any stage of the process, but if applied to a bill as a whole would most likely be employed at the second reading stage. this has not occurred since the veto power was introduced in 1996, although many amendments have been vetoed at the committee of the whole house stage (see below).

if a bill receives its second reading, it goes on to be considered by a committee of the whole house.

committee of the whole house.
when a bill reaches the committee of the whole house stage, the house resolves itself "into committee", that is, it forms a committee consisting of all mps (as distinct from a select committee, which consists only of a few members). when the house is "in committee", it is able to operate in a slightly less formal way than usual. 

during the committee of the whole house stage, a bill is debated in detail, usually "part by part" (a "part" is a grouping of clauses). mps may make five-minute speeches on a particular part or provision of the bill and may propose further amendments, but theoretically should not make general speeches on the bill's overall goals or principles (that should have occurred at the second reading). 

sometimes a member may advertise his or her proposed amendments beforehand by having them printed on a "supplementary order paper". this is common for amendments proposed by government ministers. some supplementary order papers are very extensive, and, if agreed to, can result in major amendments to bills. on rare occasions, supplementary order papers are referred to select committees for comment.

the extent to which a bill changes during this process varies. if the select committee that considered the bill did not have a government majority and made significant alterations, the government may make significant "corrective" amendments. there is some criticism that bills may be amended to incorporate significant policy changes without the benefit of select committee scrutiny or public submissions, or even that such major changes can be made with little or no notice. however, under the mmp system when the government is less likely to have an absolute majority, any amendments will usually need to be negotiated with other parties to obtain majority support.

the opposition may also put forward wrecking amendments. these amendments are often just symbolic of their contrasting policy position, or simply intended to delay the passage of the bill through the sheer quantity of amendments for the committee of the whole house to vote on.

third reading.
the final reading takes the same format as the first and second readings   a two-hour debate with mps making ten-minute speeches. the speeches once again refer to the bill in general terms, and represent the final chance for debate. a final vote is taken. if a bill passes its third reading, it is passed on to the governor-general, who will (assuming constitutional conventions are followed) give it royal assent as a matter of course. it then becomes law.

select committees.
legislation is scrutinised by select committees. the committees can call for submissions from the public, thereby meaning that there is a degree of public consultation before a parliamentary bill proceeds into law. the strengthening of the committee system was in response to concerns that legislation was being forced through, without receiving due examination and revision. each select committee has a chairperson and a deputy chairperson. mps may be members of more than one select committee. 
there are 18 select committees in the house of representatives, as follows:



members of the select committees as of 20th november 2006**;

occasionally a special select committee will be created on a temporary basis. an example was the select committee established to study the foreshore and seabed bill.

other functions.
the house also has several other important functions.

the house is legally the highest court in the land, allowing it to trial any person.  however, this function has never been used.

questions may be asked of ministers and select committee chairs every sitting day.

see also.
 the new zealand constitution;
 new zealand parliament;
 ;

external links.
 parliament of new zealand;
 images from around parliament buildings;









</doc>
<doc id="5163405" title="patrick gaines goode" nonfiltered="932" processed="919" dbindex="942">
patrick gaines goode (may 10, 1798 october 17, 1862) was an lawyer, legislator, jurist, clergyman, educator and civic leader.

patrick g. goode was born of french huguenot stock in cornwall parish, charlotte county, virginia (several sources give it as adjacent prince edward county) and moved early in life with his parents, philip and rebekah (hayes) goode, to wayne county, ohio.  they moved to xenia, ohio in 1805 where patrick attended xenia academy and then the espy school in philadelphia, pennsylvania.  he studied law under judge collett in lebanon, ohio and was admitted to the bar in 1821.

patrick gaines goode married mary whiteman on july 3, 1822 in greene county, ohio.  they had at least one son, benedict whiteman goode.  p. g. goode practiced law in madison, indiana and then in shelby county, ohio.

in 1831, patrick g. goode was a commissioner charged with locating the county seat of allen county, ohio.  he had the honor of naming the newly surveyed town and borrowed the name from lima, the capital of peru, and it was said that  to his last day would not forgive the public for their resolute abandonment of the spanish pronunciation of the name. 

patrick g. goode was elected to the ohio house of representatives in 1833 and 1834.  he was put up for speaker of the ohio house, but was defeated after several ballots.  he was elected as a whig to the twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, and twenty-seventh congresses from ohio's 3rd congressional district.  he did not stand for renomination in 1842.  patrick g. goode was a local preacher nearly all his life and occupied a pulpit almost every sunday while in washington, d.c. during his congressional career.  

in 1844, he became judge for one term of the court of common pleas in the newly created sixteenth judicial district of ohio spanning ten counties (shelby, mercer, allen, hardin, hancock, putnam, paulding, van wert, williams and defiance).  when the seventeenth district was formed in 1848, five of the northern counties were taken from the sixteenth, but auglaize was added.  judge goode was one of the last circuit-riding judges.

at the conclusion of his term of office in 1851, judge goode retired from the legal profession and joined the methodist episcopal clergy in the central ohio conference and preached until near the close of his life.  he was located for a time at anna, ohio and wapakoneta, ohio.  his knowledge of parliamentary procedure was shared by so few men in the pulpit that he was in great demand at the conferences.

patrick gaines goode died in sidney, ohio two weeks after the conference at greenville in 1862.  he is interred in graceland cemetery.





 references .
 ;
 knapp, h. s. history of the maumee valley.  toledo: blade mammoth printing and publishing house, 1872, 699 pgs.
 taylor, william a. ohio in congress from 1803 to 1901. columbus, ohio: the xx century publishing company, 1900.
 williamson, c. w.  history of western ohio and auglaize county. columbus, ohio: press of w. m. linn & sons, 1905.
 hover, barnes, jones, conover, wright, leiter, bradfords, culkins, eds. memoirs of the miami valley, 3 vols, chicago: robert o. law company, 1919.
 galbreath, c. b.  history of ohio.  chicago: american historical society, 1925, 3562 pgs.









</doc>
<doc id="5693609" title="dao xin" nonfiltered="933" processed="920" dbindex="943">
dayi daoxin (chinese:     wade-giles: tao-hsin) (japanese: d shin)(580 - 651) was the fourth chan (zen) buddhist patriarch, following jianzhi sengcan    (?-606) (wade-giles: chien-chih seng-ts'an; japanese: kanchi sosan)  and preceding hongren chinese:   ) (601 - 674). 
the earliest mention of daoxin is in the hs\fc kao-seng chuan (further biographies of eminent monks (645) (pin-yin, hsu kao-seng chuan; japanese, zoku kosoden;) by tao-hsuan (?- 667)) a later source, the ch \fcan fa pao chi (annals of the transmission of the dharma-treasure), written around 712 gives further details of daoxin s life. . as with many of the very earliest chan masters, the accuracy of the  historical record is questionable and in some cases, contradictory in details. the following biography is the traditional story of daoxin, culled from various sources, including the wudeng huiyuan (compendium of five lamps), compiled in the early thirteenth century by the monk dachuan lingyin puji (1179-1253).

biography.

daoxin, whose surname was ssu-ma, was born in or close to huai-ning, anhwei, north of the yellow river.  he began studying buddhism at the age of seven and although his teacher was a man of impure moral conduct, daoxin maintained the buddhist morality on his own without his teacher s knowledge for five or six years. 


according to jianzhi sengcan s chronicle in the compendium of five lamps, daoxin met sengcan when he was only fourteen years old. the following exchange took place:

daoxin: i ask for the master s compassion. please instruct me on how to achieve release.
sengcan: is there someone who constrains  you? ;
daoxin: there is no such person.
sengcan: why then seek release when you are constrained by no one? ;

upon hearing these words, daoxin was enlightened. he attended to sengcan for the next nine years. when sengcan went to mount lo-fu he refused permission for daoxin to follow him, saying  the dharma has been transmitted from patriarch dharma to me. i am going to the south and will leave you  to spread and protect dharma. (from the ch \fcan fa pao chi)     for ten years he studied with zhikai at great woods temple on mount lu. zhikai (wade-giles: shih-k ai) was an adept of the taintai and sanlun schools and also chanted the buddha s name as part of his practice and daoxin s practice was influenced by these other schools.  daoxin received ordination as a monk in 607. 

in 617, daoxin and some of his disciples traveled to ji province (modern ji an city in jiangxi province) and entered the town, which was under siege by bandits. daoxin taught the residents the mahaprajnaparamita sutra (perfection of wisdom) which caused the bandits to abandon their siege. 

daoxin eventually settled at east mountain temple on shuangfeng ("twin peaks") where he taught chan buddhism for thirty years and attracted large numbers of practitioners, some records say five hundred laypeople and monks.  in 643 the emperor tai zong invited daoxin to the capital city but daoxin refused to appear. three times the emperor sent emissaries and three times daoxin refused the invitation. the third time the emperor instructed to either bring back daoxin or his head. when the emissary related this instruction to daoxin, daoxin exposed and stretched out his neck to allow the emissary to chop off his head. the envoy was so shocked he reported this event to the emperor, who then honored daoxin as an exemplary buddhist monk. 

in august, 651, daoxin ordered his students to build his stupa as he was soon to die. according to the hs\fc kao-seng chuan, when asked by his disciples to name a successor, daoxin replied,  i have made many deputations during my life.   he then passed away.  the emperor dai zong honored daoxin with the posthumous name  dayi  (great healer). 

teachings.

the teachings of daoxin (and his successor, hongren) are known as the east mountain teachings, a precursor to the flowering of chan on a national scale some seventy-five years later at the beginning of the eighth century.  of significance is that daoxin was the first chan master to settle at one spot for an extended period of time, developing a stable community life which would lead to monastic chan communities throughout china. dumoulin  speculates that as alms begging was no longer viable (due to the size of daoxin s community and its relative isolation from centers of population), the monks had no choice but to work in the fields and develop administrative skills as well as engage in meditation practice. henceforth, chan practice could no longer be confined to the meditation hall but the spirit of practice had to extend to the daily duties as well. the need to extend religious practice to all aspects of one s life became a central theme in chan teachings.

as the record of daoxin s teachings (the five gates of daoxin) did not appear until the second decade of the eighth century, after hongren s record, its historical accuracy is in some doubt.  the chronicle of the lankavatara masters, which appeared in the early eighth century, has daoxin quoting from the prajnaparamita (perfection of wisdom) and pure land sutras  but whether study of these sutras formed part of daoxin s teachings is unlikely. it is clear, however, that daoxin taught meditation. the zen scholar seizan yanagida stated that the expression  samadhi of one practice  was the heart of daoxin s practice.  the five gates of daoxin quotes him as saying  buddha is the mind. outside of the mind there is no buddha.   in a later chronicle he is quoted exhorting his students to  sit earnestly in meditation! sitting in meditation is basic to all else .do not read the sutras, discuss with no one!  (ibid) on his deathbed, the compendium of five lamps records that daoxin said,  all of the myriad dharmas of the world are to be dropped away. each of you, protect this understanding and carry it into the future.  

 
references.

dumoulin, heinrich (1994, 1998) zen buddhism: a history, volume i, india and china, simon & schuster and prentice hall international isbn 0 02 897109 4 ;
ferguson, andy (2000) zen s chinese heritage: the masters and their teachings, isbn 0 86171 163 7;
mcrae, john r (1986) the northern school and the formation of early ch'an buddhism, university of hawaii press, isbn 0-8248-1056-2 ;
zong, desheng (2005) three language-related methods in early chinese chan buddhism, philosophy east and west 55.4 (oct 2005) p 584 (19);

further readings.
cleary, thomas (1990) transmission of light: zen in the art of enlightenment by zen master keizan, north point press isbn 0-86547-433-8;
mcrae, john r (2003) seeing through zen: encounter, transformation, and genealogy in chinese chan buddhism, university of california press, isbn 0-520-23798-6;









</doc>
<doc id="5019795" title="tommy oliver (musician)" nonfiltered="934" processed="921" dbindex="944">






tommy oliver (september 19, 1932 - may 2, 2006) was an american musician, bandleader, and music producer.

oliver arranged and produced albums for artists such as doris day, edie adams, wayne newton, donny and marie osmond, charles boyer, frankie avalon, and jefferson airplane.

in the 1970s and 1980s, oliver served as musical producer and bandleader for the game shows name that tune and face the music.  his credits also include work on donny & marie and the playboy after dark show.

during his career, oliver was nominated for multiple grammies.









</doc>
<doc id="3122600" title="eilenberg-steenrod axioms" nonfiltered="935" processed="922" dbindex="945">
in mathematics, specifically in algebraic topology, the eilenberg-steenrod axioms are properties that homology theories of topological spaces have in common. the quintessential example of a homology theory satisfying the axioms is singular homology, developed by samuel eilenberg and norman steenrod. 

indeed, one can define a homology theory as a sequence of functors satisfying the eilenberg-steenrod axioms. the axiomatic approach, which was developed in 1945, allows one to prove results, such as the mayer-vietoris sequence, that are common to all homology theories satisfying the axioms.

if one omits the dimension axiom (described below), then the remaining axioms define what is called an extraordinary homology theory. extraordinary cohomology theories arise in k-theory and cobordism.

 formal definition .

the eilenberg-steenrod axioms apply to a sequence of functors  from the category of pairs of topological spaces to the category of abelian groups, together with a natural transformation  called the boundary map. the axioms are:

 homotopy: homotopic maps induce the same map in homology.
 excision: if (x, a) is a pair and u is a subset of x such the closure of u is contained in the interior of a, then the inclusion map  induces an isomorphism in homology.  ;
 dimension: let p be the one-point space; then  for all . ;
 additivity: if , then ;
 exactness: each pair (x, a) induces a long exact sequence in homology, via the inclusions  and :
;

if p is the one point space then  h0(p) is called the coefficient group. for example, singular homology (taken with integer coefficients, as is most common) has as coefficients the integers.

 consequences .

some facts about homology groups can be derived directly from the axioms, such as the fact that homotopically equivalent spaces have isomorphic homology groups.

the homology of some relatively simple spaces, such as n-spheres, can be calculated directly from the axioms. from this it can be easily shown that the (n-1)-sphere is not a deformation retract of the n-disk.

 dimension axiom .

a "homology-like" theory satisfying all of the eilenberg-steenrod axioms except the dimension axiom is called an extraordinary homology theory. important examples of these were found in the 1950s, such as topological k-theory and cobordism theory. to be more precise, those examples showed the interest of the extraordinary cohomology theory concept, and came with homology theories dual to them.

 references .
 samuel eilenberg, norman e. steenrod, axiomatic approach to homology theory, proc. nat. acad. sci. u. s. a. 31, (1945). 117--120. ;
 samuel eilenberg, norman e. steenrod, foundations of algebraic topology, princeton university press, princeton, new jersey, 1952. xv+328 pp. ;
 glen bredon: topology and geometry, 1993, isbn 0-387-97926-3.






</doc>
<doc id="6121437" title="parablepsis" nonfiltered="936" processed="923" dbindex="946">


parablepsis which comes from the greek words para- ("beside") and blepein ("to look") and refers to a circumstance in which a scribe miscopies text due to inadvertently looking to the side while copying. (sometimes misspelled as periblepsis, which would mean "looking around.") this misspelling may be found in bart d. ehrman's book misquoting jesus. parablepsis is used by textual critics and analysts to describe a condition in which a person handcopying a text accidentally skips over some of it.  it may be the result of any number of mistakes and can be quite common when copying large amounts of text.
impact.
textual critics acknowledge that parablepsis is a factor in the possible mistranscription of many ancient texts.

references.


further reading.
 ;







</doc>
<doc id="5256029" title="kibalchich" nonfiltered="937" processed="924" dbindex="947">
kibalchich may refer to:
nikolai kibalchich (1850 1881), a russian/ukrainian scientist, revolutionary, terrorist;
victor kibalchich (1890 1947), better known as victor serge, a russian anarchist and communist;
vlady kibalchich (1920 2005), a russo-mexican artist and trotskyist;



</doc>
<doc id="2658434" title="travis hall" nonfiltered="938" processed="925" dbindex="948">


travis hall (born august 3 1972 in kenai, alaska) is an nfl player for the san francisco 49ers. he plays the defensive tackle position. he went to brigham young university. he was drafted by the atlanta falcons in the 6th round (181st overall) in the 1995 nfl draft. he played 10 years with the falcons before signing a free agent contract with the 49ers in 2005.

hall is a very smart, gritty and hard working player. he has great technique and a quick first step and always hustles. he has never had the ideal size to play tackle and has lost some quickness and explosiveness to injuries and age. 

 external links .
player profile;











</doc>
<doc id="4999527" title="suzie crabgrass" nonfiltered="939" processed="926" dbindex="949">
'susan "suzie" crabgrass' (played by christian serratos) is one of the most popular girls in the school in the tv show ned's declassified school survival guide. ned, whom she's nice to most of the time (this became more true as the show went on, though), has a crush on her, and moze is her chief rival, although it is implied throughout the show that they could make best friends if they didn't try to hate each other. for example, moze tries to have a test which she claims to be for the yearbook, but ends up being a "best-friend test." she later finds out that the person who got a hundred had copied the answers from crabgrass. formerly the captain of the cheer squad--she left to co-captain of the school's volleyball team. the other co-captain - moze. at the beginning of the second season, they became best friends, but still remained very competitive with each other. this became a problem when they were trying to join a school club, and caused them to get kicked out of nearly all of them.
suzie dated billy loomer as a boyfriend at the end of the first season but broke up with him in the second season. throughout the show, ned bigby had been trying to pine for her affection and succeeded in season three, when suzie and ned started dating. however, their happiness was short-lived when suzie moved away.

trivia.
likes to play jacks;
farted in class on her way out;
has two older sisters.
was 6th grade president--bought the neon wolves.
had a hamster named wheels.
broke up with missy meanie over working on the school lunch program.
both times she accepted date offers, they were really meant for jennifer mosley.
had billy loomer help her change her hair color.
loves lemonade.
hates vanilla.






http://tv.zap2it.com/photos/index/0,1237,zp_fromthumb|94545|103109,00.html





</doc>
<doc id="6992616" title="edward hainz house" nonfiltered="940" processed="927" dbindex="950">


the edward hainz house is a historic site in sebring, florida, united states. it is located at 155 west center avenue. on august 14, 1989, it was added to the u.s. national register of historic places.

references.
 highlands county listings at national register of historic places;
 highlands county listings at florida's office of cultural and historical programs;








</doc>
<doc id="5697412" title="achalpur" nonfiltered="941" processed="928" dbindex="951">




achalpur is a city and a municipal council in amravati district  in the state of maharashtra, india. 

geography.
achalpur is located at . it has an average elevation of 369 metres (1210 feet).

demographics.
as of 2001 india census, achalpur had a population of 107,304. males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. achalpur has an average literacy rate of 77%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 54% of the males and 46% of females literate. 12% of the population is under 6 years of age.

transportation.
achalpur is the northern terminus of the 762mm narrow gauge railway known locally as the shakuntala railway. this line is composed of two legs intersecting with the mumbai kolkata standard gauge railway at murtajapur   the 76km northern leg to achalpur and the 113km southeastern leg to yavatmal. as of 2004 this line was still owned by a london-based company which had leased the line to india's central railway since 1903.

economic activity.
the town had been major trade center for palmarosa oil in india. the major commodities for trade include
 cotton;
 oranges;
 red chillies;
 groundnut;

paratwada.
during the rein of british in india a military camp was established on the outskirts of the city. presently it is one of the developed civil townships in amaravati district.

references.









</doc>
<doc id="1596750" title="wolter von plettenberg" nonfiltered="942" processed="929" dbindex="952">
wolter von plettenberg (or walter von plettenberg) (c. 1450-d. 1535) was the master of the livonian brothers of the sword 1494 1535 and one of the greatest leaders of the livonian knights. he is one of the important early baltic germans.

his family had origins in westphalia. he went to the fort of narva at the age of ten. as a marshal of the order, he fought successfully against the city of riga and was elected grand master in 1494. that same year muscovites closed down the hanseatic office in novgorod and imprisoned german merchants there. livonia was drifting into war with muscovite russia.

in the war with russia 1499-1503 plettenberg showed himself as a talented and
skilled commander. his strength lay in his skilful use of heavy cavalry and artillery fire. with such tactics plettenberg won the battle of the seritsa river, where an order army of 8,000 foot and 4,000 horse defeated 40,000 muscovites.

he captured several russian strongholds, like pskov, ostrov, izborsk, ivangorod and besieged novgorod but failed to protect livonia against devastating russian raids. plettenberg made an alliance (the treaty of wenden) with the lithuanian grand prince alexander against the russians. he even tried to convince the pope alexander vi to issue a crusading bull against the russians. finally he made peace with grand prince ivan iii of muscovy in pskov in 1503, with no territorial changes. 

during the reformation, plettenberg supported the lutherans hoping thus to make himself independent of the catholic archbishop of riga. the province was in disarray and the master had serious difficulties in ruling the territory which remained divided between the order, the bishoprics and rich cities. in 1525 plettenberg converted himself and the order to the lutheran protestant faith, but he refused to secularize the province as the teutonic order in prussia had done.











</doc>
<doc id="116142" title="springfield, maine" nonfiltered="943" processed="930" dbindex="953">
springfield is a town in penobscot county, maine, united states. the population was 379 at the 2000 census.

geography.
according to the united states census bureau, the town has a total area of 99.5 km\b2 (38.4 mi\b2).  99.4 km\b2 (38.4 mi\b2) of it is land and 0.1 km\b2 (0.04 mi\b2) of it (0.10%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census2 of 2000, there were 379 people, 150 households, and 109 families residing in the town.  the population density was 3.8/km\b2 (9.9/mi\b2).  there were 196 housing units at an average density of 2.0/km\b2 (5.1/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the town was 96.57% white, 0.79% african american, 0.26% asian, 1.06% from other races, and 1.32% from two or more races. 

there were 150 households out of which 30.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 58.0% were married couples living together, 8.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 27.3% were non-families. 23.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 12.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.53 and the average family size was 2.93.

in the town the population was spread out with 24.5% under the age of 18, 5.5% from 18 to 24, 27.7% from 25 to 44, 26.6% from 45 to 64, and 15.6% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 40 years. for every 100 females there were 115.3 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 113.4 males.

the median income for a household in the town was $26,875, and the median income for a family was $28,125. males had a median income of $29,063 versus $27,500 for females. the per capita income for the town was $12,082.  about 14.3% of families and 16.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 13.8% of those under age 18 and 6.9% of those age 65 or over.




</doc>
<doc id="1202884" title="second fisher ministry" nonfiltered="944" processed="931" dbindex="954">
the second fisher ministry was the ninth australian commonwealth ministry, and ran from 29 april 1910 to 24 june 1913.

australian labor party

hon andrew fisher, mp: prime minister and treasurer;
hon billy hughes, mp: attorney-general;
hon egerton lee batchelor, mp: minister for external affairs (to 8 october 1911);
hon josiah thomas, mp: postmaster-general (to 14 october 1911), minister for external affairs (from 14 october 1911);
senator hon george pearce: minister for defence;
hon frank tudor, mp: minister for trade and customs;
hon king o'malley, mp: minister for home affairs;
senator hon gregor mcgregor: vice-president of the executive council;
senator hon edward findley: minister without portfolio;
hon charles frazer, mp: minister without portfolio (to 14 october 1911), postmaster-general (from 14 november 1911);
hon ernest roberts, mp: minister without portfolio;





</doc>
<doc id="104066" title="rhinovirus" nonfiltered="945" processed="932" dbindex="955">







human rhinovirus a (hrv-a) 
human rhinovirus b (hrv-b)

rhinovirus (from the greek rhin-, which means "nose") is a genus of the picornaviridae family of viruses. 
rhinoviruses are the most common viral infective agents in humans, and a causative agent of the common cold. there are over 105 serologic virus types that cause cold symptoms, and rhinoviruses are responsible for approximately 50% of all cases. 

rhinoviruses have single-stranded positive sense rna genomes of between 7.2 and 8.5kb in length. at the 5  end of the genome is a virus-encoded protein, and like mammalian mrna, there is a 3  poly-a tail. structural proteins are encoded in the 5  region of the genome and non structural at the end. this is the same for all picornaviruses. the viral particles themselves are not enveloped and are icosahedral in structure. 

 structure .

rhinoviruses are composed of a capsid, that contains four viral proteins vp1, vp2, vp3 and vp4. vp1, vp2, and vp3 form the major part of the protein capsid. the much smaller vp4 protein has a more extended structure and lies at interface between the capsid and the rna genome. there are 60 copies of each of these proteins assembled as an icosahedron. antibodies are a major defense against infection with the epitopes lying on the exterior regions of vp1-vp3.

transmission and epidemiology.
rhinoviruses have two main modes of transmission: in the past it was obvious that these viruses were transmitted directly from person-to-person via aerosols of respiratory droplets. however, now they are known to be transmitted indirectly via respiratory droplets that are deposited on the hands and then transported by fingers to the nose or eyes. 

rhinoviruses occur worldwide causing disease especially at schools for example which enhance transmission during fall and winter. they show symptoms such as fever, cough, and nasal congestion. the frequency of colds is high in childhood and decreases during adulthood most probably because of the possession of immunity.

pathogenesis.
the primary route of entry for rhinoviruses is the upper respiratory tract. afterwards, the virus binds to icam-1 (intracellular adhesion molecule -1) receptors on respiratory epithelial cells. as the virus replicates and spreads, infected cells release distress signals known as chemokines and cytokines (which in turn activate inflammatory mediators).

infection occurs rapidly, with the virus adhering to surface receptors within 15 minutes of entering the respiratory tract.  the incubation period is generally 8-10 hours before symptoms begin to occur.

rhinoviruses rarely cause lower respiratory tract disease probably because they grow poorly at 37\b0c.

novel antiviral drugs.
interferon-alpha used intranasally was shown to be protective to rhinovirus infections. however, volunteers treated with this drug experienced some side effects, such as nasal bleeding, and resistance was also developing toward the drug. hence, all research put into this drug was ceased.

pleconaril, is a bioavailable antiviral drug that is taken orally for treating infections caused by picornaviruses. this drug acts by binding to a hydrophobic pocket in vp1 and stabilizes the protein capsid to such an extent that the virus cannot release its rna genome into the target cell. when tested in volunteers, during the clinical trials, this drug caused a significant decrease in mucus secretions and illness-associated symptoms. pleconaril is not currently available for treatment of rhinoviral infections, as its efficacy in treating these infections is under further evaluation.

vaccine.
there are no vaccines against these viruses as there is little-to-no cross-protection between serotypes. it would be impractical to administer 105 separate vaccines to a patient.

references.


 smith, t. j., chase, e. s., schmidt, t. j., olson, n. h. & baker, t. s. (1996). neutralizing antibody to human rhinovirus 14 penetrates the receptor-binding canyon. nature 383, 350-354.

 abraham, g. & colonno, r. j. (1984). many rhinovirus serotypes share the same cellular receptor. j. virol. 51: 340-345.

external links. 

rhinovirus: an unstoppable cause of the common cold?;
rhinovirus;











</doc>
<doc id="440426" title="hashim abderrahman al-shibli" nonfiltered="946" processed="933" dbindex="956">
hashim abderrahman al-shibli ( ) is the iraqi justice minister in the government of nouri al-maliki. a sunni arab, he was elected to the national assembly of iraq in december 2005 on the secular iraqi national list coalition. he was nominated to the post of human rights minister in the iraqi transitional government which he turned down, saying he wasn't consulted before being nominated. he was the minister of justice in the iraqi governing council. a lawyer and sunni muslim, al-shibli is a member of the newly formed national democratic party (iraq).

following the leaking of a videotape of saddam hussein's execution, with the detention on january 3, 2007 of a guard under al-shibli's ministry, suspicions have arisen that his ministry may have intended to inflame sectarian tensions.

references.
 
 
 













</doc>
<doc id="1674630" title="continentality" nonfiltered="947" processed="934" dbindex="957">
continentality is a factor in the creation of a desert, it is the idea that as an area is very far from the sea there is more seasonal variation, making deserts more likely. remoteness from the sea means that there is less chance of precipitation. continentality affects and influences both temperature and rainfall (precipitation). it is an important factor in climographs.

for example the tassili mountains of southern algeria are almost 2000 km from the sea.

because solar radiation heats land faster than water, continentality causes greater extremes in both temperature and precipitation the farther inland an area is.  this causes localized as well as global impacts on weather patterns.  for instance, high pressure caused by cold, sinking air over siberia in winter and low pressure caused by warm, rising air over siberia in summer help drive the monsoons of south asia.

a characteristic of regions that lack the temperature moderating effects of the sea and that exhibit a greater range of minimum and maximum temperature, both daily and annually






</doc>
<doc id="873823" title="timeline of asimov's foundation series" nonfiltered="948" processed="935" dbindex="958">
below is a summarized timeline for events detailed in isaac asimov's foundation series.

all dates are quoted in galactic era (ge) and foundation era (fe) which starts in 12,066 ge.




external links.
 detailed timeline for the robots and foundation universe;
 even more detailed timeline of all stories, including works by other authors.;



</doc>
<doc id="8092477" title="scimitar class patrol vessel" nonfiltered="949" processed="936" dbindex="959">

the scimitar-class is a class of fast patrol boat in service with the british royal navy. the two vessels of this class are of a commercial design known as the lifespan patrol vessel (lpv), and formerly served in an inshore waterways anti-terrorist role in northern ireland. they were acquired for the royal navy in 2003 for service with the gibraltar squadron, releasing two archer-class boats that had filled this role for service with the cyprus squadron.

vessels.
 hms scimitar (p284) (ex-mv grey fox);
 hms sabre (p285) (ex-mv grey wolf);

external links.
 navy news | gibraltar squadron patrols the front line | february 06 2003;
 royal navy gibraltar squadron official page;
 telegraph | news | navy switches ira patrol boats to guard gibraltar | november 03 2002;







</doc>
<doc id="1482438" title="ferga" nonfiltered="950" processed="937" dbindex="960">
in irish mythology ferga son of eber finn was joint high king of ireland with his brothers ir, orba and fearon, after they overthrew muimne, luigne and laigne, sons of eremon. they ruled for half a year before being overthrown by irial f\e1ith, son of eremon.










</doc>
<doc id="1187602" title="antoniuk" nonfiltered="951" processed="938" dbindex="961">


antoniuk is one of the districts of the polish city of bia ystok inhabited by profound mental retards.









</doc>
<doc id="139152" title="adams, jackson county, wisconsin" nonfiltered="952" processed="939" dbindex="962">
there are also other towns named adams in wisconsin.;

adams is a town in jackson county, wisconsin, united states. the population was 1,208 at the 2000 census.

geography.
according to the united states census bureau, the town has a total area of 95.9 km\b2 (37.0 mi\b2).  93.3 km\b2 (36.0 mi\b2) of it is land and 2.7 km\b2 (1.0 mi\b2) of it (2.81%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census2 of 2000, there were 1,208 people, 485 households, and 353 families residing in the town.  the population density was 13.0/km\b2 (33.6/mi\b2).  there were 564 housing units at an average density of 6.0/km\b2 (15.7/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the town was 94.54% white, 0.33% african american, 3.73% native american, 0.25% asian, 0.50% from other races, and 0.66% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 1.24% of the population.

there were 485 households out of which 27.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 60.8% were married couples living together, 8.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 27.2% were non-families. 20.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 6.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.47 and the average family size was 2.84.

in the town the population was spread out with 21.5% under the age of 18, 6.7% from 18 to 24, 27.2% from 25 to 44, 29.6% from 45 to 64, and 15.1% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 42 years. for every 100 females there were 113.4 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 109.7 males.

the median income for a household in the town was $44,191, and the median income for a family was $50,288. males had a median income of $30,481 versus $22,188 for females. the per capita income for the town was $19,729.  about 2.7% of families and 4.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 0.4% of those under age 18 and 13.4% of those age 65 or over.




</doc>
<doc id="390072" title="gelatinous cube" nonfiltered="953" processed="940" dbindex="963">
a gelatinous cube is a fictional monster from the dungeons & dragons role-playing game.

ecology.
a gelatinous cube slides through dungeon corridors, absorbing everything in its path, digesting everything organic and secreting non-digestible matter in its wake. contact with its exterior can result in a paralyzing electric shock, after which the cube will proceed to slowly digest its stunned and helpless prey.

reproduction is through a form of hermaphroditic 'budding', in which a smaller, stub cube is left behind in a side corridor to grow into full-sized cubes, although these stub cubes run the risk of being absorbed by their own parent on its next trip down the corridor. scholars have determined that juvenile gelatinous cubes grow to fit their own natural environment, adapting their exterior proportions to the size of the corridors they most commonly sweep. 

environment.
gelatinous cubes typically live underground.

typical physical characteristics.
a gelationous cube looks like a transparent ooze of mindless, gelatinous matter in the shape of a cube.

some legends whisper of monstrous, "legendary" gelatinous cubes in the deep and secret places beneath the earth that have grown to several hundred cubic feet of volume.

alignment.
gelatinous cubes are always neutral.

society.

gallery.


gelatinous cubes in other media.
in castle of the winds there is a "gelatinous glob.";
in the virtual pet game psypets, the gelatinous cube is one of the many monsters the player's pet can defeat.
on the neopets website, there are jelly blobs named "gelatinous non-cubes.";
the ascii based game moria features a treasure rich gelatinous cube.

creative origins.
because of its obviously fantastic, unrealistic nature, the gelatinous cube is one of the most well-known monsters created especially for role-playing games. although it resembles other fictional monsters, it is an invention of roleplaying game authors, rather than being lifted from outside sources and adapted to a roleplaying setting, as were many mythological monsters like the minotaur and dryad.

like the flumph, the gelatinous cube is commonly considered one of the sillier role-playing game monsters. being a cube that is a perfect ten feet on each side, it is specifically and perfectly adapted to its native environment, the endless standard, 10-foot by 10-foot dungeon corridors which were so ubiquitous in the earliest d&d modules, particularly the randomly-generated ones created using the rules in the dungeon master's guide. its existence is also something of a commentary on the ubiquity of treasure-laden dungeons in the dungeons & dragons universe itself.

references.
greenwood, ed. "the ecology of the gelatinous cube." dragon magazine #124 (tsr, 1987).

gygax, gary. monster manual (tsr, 1977).

williams, skip, jonathan tweet, and monte cook. monster manual (wizards of the coast, 2000).

external link.
 the gelatinous cube in neverwinter nights;



</doc>
<doc id="5563327" title="kevin" nonfiltered="954" processed="941" dbindex="964">


for other uses, see kevin (disambiguation).;

kevin, irish caoimh\edn (old irish caoimhgh\edn or caemgen), is a male first name of irish origin. it is believed that saint kevin was the one who popularized the name, although kevin is not a biblical name.  kevin means "adorable/attractive or gentle one". kevin shares no ancestry to kelvin or calvin.

the name kevin has been in france's top 100 baby names since 1980.




kevin may refer to:

kevin, montana;

people named kevin:
kevin rose (born 1977), founder of digg.
kevin costner (born 1955), (actor, dances with wolves (1990)) birth name "kevin michael costner". ;
kevin bacon (born 1958), (actor, mystic river (2003)) aka "kevin bacon iii".
kevin spacey (born 1959), (actor, american beauty (1999)) birth name "kevin spacey fowler".
kevin james (born 1965), (actor, hitch (2005)) birth name "kevin george knipfing".
kevin smith (born 1970), (actor, jay and silent bob strike back (2001)) aka "kevin p. smith" birth name "kevin patrick smith".
kevin kline (born 1947), (actor, the ice storm (1997)) birth name "kevin delaney kline".
kevin federline (born 1978), (dancer/actor/rapper);
kevin nealon (born 1953), (actor, daddy day care (2003)).
kevin pollak (born 1957), (actor, the usual suspects (1995)) birth name "kevin e. pollak".
kevin faulk (born 1976), (rb, nfl: new england patriots college: lsu).
kevin garnett (born 1976), (forward, nba: minnesota timberwolves college: drafted out of farragut academy hs (il)).
kevin martin (born 1983), (guard, nba: sacramento kings college: western carolina).
kevin ollie (born 1972), (guard, nba: philadelphia 76ers college: connecticut).
kevin mchale (born 1957), (forward, nba: boston celtics college: university of minnesota).

</doc>
<doc id="442604" title="union 76" nonfiltered="955" processed="942" dbindex="965">




union 76 is a chain of gas stations located within the united states.  the union 76 brand is owned by conocophillips.  union oil company of california, dba unocal, the original owner and creator of the union 76 brand merged with the chevron corporation in 2005.

in 1997, unocal sold its western united states refining and marketing operations and the rights to the union 76 brand to tosco corporation. tosco has since been purchased by phillips petroleum who merged with conoco to form conocophillips. unocal continued to own the "76" trademark for use in its operations, with the exception of the divested refining and marketing business.  on august 10, 2005, unocal corporation was acquired and merged into a subsidiary of chevron corporation.

unlike other petroleum companies, union 76 uses ethanol instead of mtbe in their gasoline.

union 76's gasoline additive is known as proclean, 76 is also a "top tier" fuel.

the orange ball.

union 76 is famous for its signs, which are large orange balls with '76' written on them. many stations had the 76 ball rotate when the signs were lit up. the first such sign was designed in 1962 by advertising creative director ray pedersen for the seattle world's fair.

in 2005, new corporate owners conocophillips began rebranding the 76 stations, pulling down the popular orange and blue ball signs in favor of a "monument-style" sign in red and blue.

conocophillips has partially backtracked on this decision recently, agreeing to donate old orange style 76 balls to museums and to erect to 100 spheres in the new red and blue color scheme.

long before jack in the box restaurants created their well-known 'jack's head' promotional radio antenna toppers, the orange 76 ball invented the concept. beginning in 1967 tens of millions were made and distributed by union 76. these were extremely popular, primarily in the greater los angeles area, where they are still frequently seen.

in the popular film the lost world: jurassic park, a t-rex knocks the 76 ball off the sign, causing it to roll through the filling station, nearly crushing ian malcolm's pontiac gto.

the union 76 ball is also a very popular logo in european tuning, in the "cult style." the 76 logo is also used on many clothing items in japan as of 2005.

see also.
unocal corporation;
 gas station;
 gasoline;
 petroleum;
 list of automotive fuel brands;
 opec;
 list of oil-producing states;
 convenience store;

external links.
 save the 76 ball campaign;
 union76.com;
 can we have our balls back, please?;






</doc>
<doc id="1049569" title="certificate of loss of nationality" nonfiltered="956" processed="943" dbindex="966">
the certificate of loss of nationality or cln is an american form that formally declares that a us citizen has successfully renounced his or her us citizenship. the cln is part of the usa's immigration and nationality act of 1952.

in order for a renunciation of citizenship to be proper, three of the criteria that must be met are that:
 the citizen has unequivocally admitted in writing an intent to lose us citizenship;
 the renunciation was made at a us diplomatic office outside the us before a us diplomatic officer;
 and that it must be made voluntarily;
grounds for arguing that renunciation was not voluntary are financial hardship (e.g. the need to get a job in another country) or family pressure.  

alternatively, the state department may argue that us citizenship has been surrendered due to the person making an oath of allegiance to a foreign state voluntarily and with the intent to relinquish us citizenship, such that the person has
 signed an oath of allegiance to the foreign state, renouncing allegiance to all other states, and;
 the person is clear that they know exactly what they are doing.

commonly a cln is issued at a united states embassy in exchange for the united states passport. to raise the likelihood of successful renunciation it would appear that all five bulleted criteria should a) be met and b) be sworn by official witnesses  to have occurred.  case law shows that in order to avoid further legal complications it is vital to obtain a cln, and not just meet the criteria.

what is not clear is whether the us embassy would co-operate and issue the cln if they believed that the us citizen was actually or potentially wanted in the us to serve military service under a draft. further aggravating the clarity of the situation is the customary us practice of allowing dual nationality with certain states (such as israel and the uk) which work closely with the us. there is case law (carter v rubin) finding "it is the government which decides for the people, not the individual who decides for himself, when a person is in fact a citizen of the us".

external links.

 examples of unsuccessful arguments of not being a citizen of the us;
 consular guidance in preparing a letter to a us citizen informing them that they have lost their citizenship.  ;
 genuine sample cln;





</doc>
<doc id="2293294" title="cantata laxat\f3n" nonfiltered="957" processed="944" dbindex="967">


the second album of les luthiers, released in august, 1972.

track listing.

side one.
 "cantata laxat\f3n" ;
side two.
 "bolero de mastropiero";
 "tristezas del manuela";
 "pieza en forma de tango";
 "si no fuera santiague\f1o";
 "vals del segundo";









</doc>
<doc id="3362254" title="blakely island, washington" nonfiltered="958" processed="945" dbindex="968">
blakely island is the sixth largest island in the san juan islands of washington state, usa, encompassing a land area of 16.852 km\b2 (6.507 sq m). the population was 56 persons as of the 2000 census. there is no regularly scheduled ferry service to blakely island. access is only by boat, arriving at the marina at the northern tip of the island, or by light plane, arriving at the island's airstrip. the only services available on blakely island are at a general store, located at the marina. blakely island has few roads. blakely island is also home to the unincorporated community of thatcher.

references.
blakely island: block 2000, census tract 9605, san juan county, washington united states census bureau;




</doc>
<doc id="5692654" title="lewis carter-jones" nonfiltered="959" processed="946" dbindex="969">
lewis carter-jones (17 november 1920   26 august 2004) was a british labour party politician.

carter-jones was educated at bridgend county school and university college of wales, aberystwyth. he was head of business studies at yale grammar technical school, wrexham, and a rugby union referee.

carter-jones contested chester in a 1956 by-election and at the 1959 general election. he was member of parliament for eccles from 1964 until he retired at the 1987 general election.  his successor was joan lestor.

references.
the times guide to the house of commons, times newspapers ltd, 1966 & 1983;
whitkaker's almanack 2005;





















</doc>
<doc id="8296018" title="pohnpeian language" nonfiltered="961" processed="947" dbindex="971">
pohnpeian is a micronesian language of the ponapeic-trukic subfamily. it is spoken on the island of pohnpei.








</doc>
<doc id="1015678" title="national catfish day" nonfiltered="962" processed="948" dbindex="972">
national catfish day is a national observance of the united states celebrating "the value of farm-raised catfish." the day was designated as june 25, 1987, by president ronald reagan, who issued the presidential proclamation after the u.s. congress called for the day to be established in house joint resolution 178.

the text of the proclamation.
proclamation 5672   national catfish day, 1987;
june 25, 1987;
by the president of the united states of america;
a proclamation;
more and more americans are discovering a uniquely american food delicacy   farm-raised catfish. in 1986, catfish comprised the third highest volume of finned fish consumed in the united states.;
ninety-nine percent of all these catfish were farm-raised. between 1975 and 1985, production of farm-raised catfish increased by 1200 percent. most observers expect that production will continue to increase in 1987. production costs of catfish farming, which have averaged only 65 cents per pound over the past 8 years, have resulted in a stable income for growers and an economical food product for consumers. the accompanying growth of the catfish processing industry also has created thousands of permanent jobs.;
farm-raised catfish have come a long way from their bottom-feeding ancestors. the catfish that are available today, fresh or frozen in markets nationwide, are products of state-of-the-art methods of  aquaculture. they thrive in clean freshwater ponds on many american farms, where they are surface-fed soybean meal, corn, fish meal, vitamins, and minerals. farm-raised catfish not only furnish american consumers with a tasty delicacy but also provide a nutritious, low-calorie source of protein that is also low in cholesterol.;
in recognition of the value of farm-raised catfish, the congress, by house joint resolution 178, has designated june 25, 1987, as "national catfish day" and authorized and requested the president to issue a proclamation in its observance.;
now, therefore, i, ronald reagan, president of the united states of america, do hereby proclaim june 25, 1987, as national catfish day. i call upon the people of the united states to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.;
in witness whereof, i have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of june, in the year of our lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the independence of the united states of america the two hundred and eleventh.;
ronald reagan;
with the office of the federal register, 4:13 p.m., june 25, 1987;



</doc>
<doc id="5585769" title="amiens sc" nonfiltered="963" processed="949" dbindex="973">


amiens sporting club (amiens sc) is a french soccer club based in amiens, currently playing in ligue 2, the second highest tier of the french football league. 

history.
amiens athl\e9tic club was set up in 1901 by a group of players from the association du lyc\e9e d'amiens, french schoolboy champions in 1902, 1903 and 1904. aac crushed their very first opponents, saint-quentin, 13-0 a few months after its creation. in april 1902 the comit\e9 de picardie de l'u.s.f.s.a was established by the then president of the aac (henri-fr\e9d\e9ric petit). aac dominated the early usfsa league for the first 12 seasons. in 1909 the club got a new ground, at the henry daussy park, allowing an attendance of more than 1000. in 1933 the club got its first professional section, later abandoned in 1952, before becoming professional again in 1993. since the early days, aac has undergone two name changes: in 1961 to sporting club d'amiens, and in 1989 as amiens sporting club. 

current squad 2006/2007.

nationality given from place of birth































certain players, have dual-nationality, but for the sake of the lists the priority is given to the chosen country of the player.

dual nationality.
15   andr\e9 buengo;
30   fousseyni tangara;

squad change during 06/07 season.

in:
 s\e9bastien heitzmann signed from  valenciennes fc ;

out:
 issiar dia sold to  as nancy-lorraine   ;

external links.

 official website*;

trophies.
runner-up in france's division 3: 1974, 1978, 2001;
champion of dh nord : 1924, 1927, 1957, 1963 ;
champion of dh picardie : 1920, 1921 ;
champion of usfsa picardie : 1903, 1904, 1905, 1906, 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911, 1912, 1913, 1914 ;
finalist of the coupe de france : 2001;



 














</doc>
<doc id="123812" title="clarkson, nebraska" nonfiltered="964" processed="950" dbindex="974">
clarkson is a city in colfax county, nebraska, united states. the population was 685 at the 2000 census.

geography.
clarkson is located at  (41.724676, -97.123015).

according to the united states census bureau, the city has a total area of 1.8 km\b2 (0.7 mi\b2), all land.

demographics.
as of the census of 2000, there were 685 people, 311 households, and 185 families residing in the city. the population density was 383.3/km\b2 (999.3/mi\b2). there were 366 housing units at an average density of 204.8/km\b2 (533.9/mi\b2). the racial makeup of the city was 99.12% white, 0.73% from other races, and 0.15% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 1.31% of the population.

there were 311 households out of which 25.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.7% were married couples living together, 4.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 40.5% were non-families. 38.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 23.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. the average household size was 2.20 and the average family size was 2.95.

in the city the population was spread out with 24.4% under the age of 18, 6.3% from 18 to 24, 25.1% from 25 to 44, 18.1% from 45 to 64, and 26.1% who were 65 years of age or older. the median age was 41 years. for every 100 females there were 86.1 males. for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 83.7 males.

the median income for a household in the city was $26,726, and the median income for a family was $36,094. males had a median income of $25,625 versus $20,938 for females. the per capita income for the city was $14,189. about 6.5% of families and 9.1% of the population were below the poverty line, including 8.1% of those under age 18 and 15.5% of those age 65 or over.

external links.





</doc>
<doc id="1260056" title="1852 in rail transport" nonfiltered="965" processed="951" dbindex="975">


events.

october events.
 october 10 - the first revenue trains operate over the chicago & rock island railroad, an early predecessor of the chicago, rock island and pacific railroad;

 november events .
 november 20 - the lake shore and michigan southern railway line between erie, pennsylvania, and cleveland, ohio, opens.

unknown date events.
 john cooke steps down from the superintendent position at rogers locomotive and machine works to partner with charles danforth in forming the new locomotive manufacturing company, danforth, cooke and company in paterson, new jersey.
 the first 2-6-0 steam locomotives are built.
 john edgar thomson becomes president of the pennsylvania railroad.

births.

 august events .
 august 16   charles sanger mellen, president of northern pacific railway 1897-1903 and new haven railroad beginning in 1903, is born (d. 1927).;

unknown date births.
 j. elfreth watkins, railroad civil engineer and first curator for the smithsonian institution's railroad artifacts including john bull.

deaths.

 references .




</doc>
<doc id="5709053" title="bhalariya" nonfiltered="966" processed="952" dbindex="976">

bhalariya is a census town in udaipur district  in the state of rajasthan, india.

demographics.
as of 2001 india census, bhalariya had a population of 6530. males constitute 53% of the population and females 47%. bhalariya has an average literacy rate of 83%, higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 55% of the males and 45% of the females literate. 10% of the population is under 6 years of age.






</doc>
<doc id="241000" title="carcharhiniformes" nonfiltered="967" processed="953" dbindex="977">

 
the ground sharks, order carcharhiniformes, are the largest order of sharks; they are also called whaler sharks. with over 270 species, carcharhiniforms include a number of common types, such as the blue shark, catsharks, swellsharks, and sandbar shark.  

members of the orders are characterized by the presence of a nictitating membrane over the eye, two dorsal fins, an anal fin, and five gill slits.

the families of the carcharhiniforms are expected to be revised; recent dna studies show that some of the traditional groups are not monophyletic.

families.
 carcharhinidae (requiem sharks);
 hemigaleidae (weasel sharks);
 leptochariidae (barbeled houndshark);
 proscylliidae (finback cat sharks);
 pseudotriakidae (false cat sharks);
 scyliorhinidae (cat sharks);
 sphyrnidae (hammerhead sharks);
 triakidae (hound sharks);

 taxonomy .
list of species of the order carcharhiniformes;

 external link .
 order carcharhiniformes;















</doc>
<doc id="3857148" title="yekaterina podkopayeva" nonfiltered="968" processed="954" dbindex="978">
yekaterina podkopayeva (; born june 11, 1952 in moscow) is a retired middle distance runner who represented the ussr and later russia. she gained international recognition in 1983, when she won two bronze medals at the world championships (in 800 and 1500 metres). the same year she managed an 800 m time of 1:55.96. she resurfaced in 1992, winning the european indoor championships and placing 8th in the olympics. more victories in european and world indoor championships followed until she retired after the 1998 season.

personal bests.
800 metres - 1:55.96 (1983);
1000 metres - 2:37.27 (1993);
1500 metres - 3:56.65 (1984);
one mile - 4:23.78 (1993);

achievements.


external links.
;













</doc>
<doc id="8020096" title="honnemaradu" nonfiltered="969" processed="955" dbindex="979">

honnemaradu, situated on the back waters of river sharavathi is famous for watersports . it is located in shimoga district, karnataka about 25 kms away from sagara,  on the way to jog falls. it welcomes the adventure loving people from all around the world. one can enjoy kayaking, wind water surfing and all other kind of watersports. visitors can stay over there and are provided with food, shelter and water sports equipments.


</doc>
<doc id="2919410" title="sindhuli district" nonfiltered="970" processed="956" dbindex="980">
sindhuli district, a part of janakpur zone, is one of the seventy-five districts of nepal, a landlocked country of south asia. the district, with sindhulimadhi as its district headquarters, covers an area of 2,491 sq km and has a population (2001) of 279,821.

see also.
zones of nepal;

reference.
 ;







</doc>
<doc id="164342" title="television movie" nonfiltered="971" processed="957" dbindex="981">


a television movie (also known as a tv film, tv movie, tv-movie, feature-length drama, made-for-tv movie, original movie, movie of the week (motw or mow), single drama, telemovie, or telefilm) is a film that is produced for and originally distributed by a television network.

origins and history.
though not explicitly labelled as such, there were early precedents for "tv movies," such as the 1957 version of the pied piper of hamelin, starring van johnson, one of  the first "family musicals" made directly for television. hundreds of live, feature-length dramas aired on television from the 1940s through the 1950s, including such famous productions as 1956's requiem for a heavyweight by screenwriter rod serling; as was typical but not universal, this live broadcast was preserved on kinescope for rebroadcast.

the term "made-for-tv movie" was coined in the united states in the early 1960s as an incentive for movie audiences to stay home and watch what was promoted as the equivalent of a first-run theatrical motion picture.  the first of these made-for-tv movies is generally acknowledged to be see how they run, which debuted on nbc on 7 october 1964. a previous film, the killers, starring lee marvin and ronald reagan, was filmed as a tv-movie, although network? the producers? decided it was  too violent for television and it was released theatrically instead.

these features originally filled a 90-minute time slot (including commercials), later expanded to two hours, and were usually broadcast as a weekly anthology series (for example, the abc movie of the week). many early tv movies featured major stars, and some were accorded higher budgets than standard series television programs of the same length, including the major dramatic anthology programs which they came to replace.

notable examples.

the most-watched tv movie of all time was abc's the day after, which aired on november 20, 1983, to an estimated audience of 100 million people.  the film depicted america after a nuclear war with the soviet union, and was the subject of much controversy and discussion at the time of its release.

another popular and critically acclaimed tv movie was 1971's duel directed by steven spielberg and starring dennis weaver. such were the quality and popularity of duel that it was released to cinemas in europe and later the us. another was brian's song, which also saw theatrical release. however, many 1970s tv movies were a source of controversy, such as linda blair's movies born innocent and sarah t. - portrait of a teenage alcoholic, as well as  and , which were vehicles for former brady bunch actress eve plumb.  "that certain summer" (1972), starring hal holbrook and martin sheen, though controversial, was considered the first tv movie to approach the subject of homosexuality in a non-threatening manner.

often a successful series may spawn a tv movie sequel after ending its run, and tv movies may also be used as the first episode of a series, otherwise known as a pilot.  for example, babylon 5: the gathering launched the science fiction series babylon 5 and is considered to be distinct from the show's regular run of one-hour episodes. babylon 5 also has several sequel tv movies set within the same fictional continuity.

only the first film in the parent trap series was released thearetrically. the parent trap ii, iii and iv were tv-movies.

tv movies are often broadcast on major networks during sweeps season or on cable networks that specialize in producing them such as hallmark channel, lifetime, and hbo.

there are also tv movies known as "reunion movies," which bring back the cast of tv series. these include:

murder, she wrote: south by southwest;
return to mayberry;
;
mary and rhoda;
a very brady christmas;
the growing pains movie;
growing pains: return of the seavers;

production and quality.


despite their promise to compete with theatrical films, network-made tv movies in the usa have tended to be inexpensively-produced and low quality; stylistically, they often resemble single episodes of dramatic television series. often they are made to "cash in" on the interest centering on stories currently prominent in the news, as the amy fisher films were. the stories are written to reach periodic semi-cliffhangers coinciding with the network-scheduled times for the insertion of commercials; they are further managed to fill, but not exceed, the fixed running times allotted by the network to each movie "series". the movies tend to rely on small casts and a limited range of settings and camera setups, and tend to progress in a literal, linear fashion.  even spielberg's duel, while a well-crafted film, features a very small cast (apart from weaver, all other acting roles are bit-parts) and mostly outdoors shooting locations in the desert. the movies are typically made by smaller crews, and they rarely feature expensive special effects. often they are recorded in less expensive video rather than the preferred motion picture medium of film. various techniques are often employed to "pad" tv movies with low budgets and underdeveloped scripts, such as music video-style montages, flashbacks, or repeated footage, and extended periods of dramatic slow motion footage (sometimes taken to ridiculous extremes as in the usa network thriller wheels of terror).

some tv movies are notoriously melodramatic, with soap opera style plots; typical plots associated with the genre include "disease of the week" movies or films about domestic violence. rape is also a common theme, though not always the focus of the storyline. the series of moment of truth movies that run on the lifetime cable network exemplify these melodramatic tendencies. certain actresses, such as valerie bertinelli, michele lee and nancy mckeon, have been stereotyped as tv actresses due to the number of tv-movies in which they have appeared.

tv movies often follow specific naming conventions. for example, the title of many biographical films consist of a dramatic phrase, followed by "the   story". examples of this naming format include love and betrayal: the mia farrow story, and fight for justice: the nancy conn story.

movie-length episodes of tv shows.
occasionally, a long-running television series is used as the basis for tv movies that air during the show's lifetimes (as opposed to the above-mentioned "reunion specials"). typically, such movies employ a filmed single-camera setup even if the tv series is videotaped using a multiple-camera setup, but are written to be easily broken up into individual thirty- or sixty-minute episodes for syndication. many such movies relocate the cast of the show to an exotic overseas setting, such as europe or australia.

examples include:

 the facts of life;
 the facts of life goes to paris (1982);
 the facts of life down under (1987);

 family ties;
 family ties vacation (1985);

  law & order: criminal intent;
 in the wee small hours (2005);

 saved by the bell;
 saved by the bell: hawaiian style (1992);

 sabrina, the teenage witch ;
 sabrina goes to rome  (1998) ;
 sabrina, down under (1999);

the children's-tv cable network(nickelodeon) in its promotions sometimes calls its hour-long specials "tv movies", despite the traditional definition. the network sometimes does this as well for extended-length episodes of an extant series, such as zoey 101 's spring breakup, and several jimmy neutron, drake and josh and the fairly oddparents specials.

see also.
direct-to-video;
tv specials;
miniseries;












</doc>
<doc id="450257" title="urban agriculture" nonfiltered="972" processed="958" dbindex="982">
urban (or peri-urban) agriculture is the practice of agriculture (including crops, livestock, fisheries, and forestry activities) within or surrounding the boundaries of cities.

the land used may be private residential land (use of private pieces of land, balconies, walls or building roofs), public roadside land or river banks.

urban farming is practiced for income-earning or food-producing activities. it contributes to food security and food safety in two ways : first it increases the amount of food available to people living in cities, and second it allows fresh vegetables and fruits to be made available to urban consumers.

because it promotes energy-saving local food production, urban and peri-urban agriculture are sustainability practices. 

a new definition of urban agriculture.
urban agriculture is an industry located within (intra-urban) or on the fringe (peri-urban) of a town, a city or a metropolis, which grows and raises, processes and distributes a diversity of food and non-food products, (re-) using largely human and natural resources*, products and services found in and around that urban area, and in turn supplying human and material resources, products and services largely to that urban area. (* natural resources refer to soil, water, genetics, air and solar energy.) 

(this definition has been created by the luc mougeot of the international development research centre and used in technical and training publications by un-habitat s urban management programme , fao  s special programme for food security , and international agricultural research centres, such as cirad.)

why urban agriculture has grown in importance.
local economies.
localized food production in urban and peri-urban areas creates stronger local economies by creating jobs. some researchers indicate that unemployed populations in large cities and suburban towns would decrease if put to work by local food movements. schools, such as the waldorf school, have foreseen the asset of local food production and are beginning to incorporate an agricultural section in their curriculum and present it as a career opportunity. urban agricultural projects are beginning to open a new labor market in areas that have been negatively affected by industrial outsourcing of jobs.

energy efficiency.
the current industrial agriculture system is accountable for high energy costs for the transportation of foodstuffs. according to san diego's community forest advisory board, a group that is promoting urban agriculture in the city, 95% of the food produced within the united states is exported, while 95% of the food eaten in the united states is imported. the energy used to transport food would be greatly decreased if urban agriculture could provide the us cities with locally-grown food.

quality of food.
although the taste of locally grown food is subjective, many participants in the urban agriculture movement report they prefer the taste of local agricultural products, or organic food, to that of industrial food production. also, urban agriculture supports a more sustainable production of the food that tries to decrease the use of harmful pesticides that result in agricultural runoff. urban and local farmers also eliminate the need for preservatives, as their products do not need to travel long distances.

implementations of urban agriculture.
community-based infrastructure.
creating a community-based infrastructure for urban agriculture means facilitating how crops are grown, how the food is processed, and how is it transferred from the farmer (producer) to the consumer. 

to facilitate the growing of crops and food production, cities have established community-based farming projects. a common land, much like that of eighteenth-century boston common, would effectively centralize food production in urban areas where space is limited. an example of a community farm is the collingwood children s farm in melbourne, australia. other proposals include creating community tool sheds and processing facilities for farmers to share, once again centralizing the resources. the garden resource program collaborative based in detroit has cluster tool banks.  different areas of the city have a toolbank where resources like tools, compost, mulch, tomatoe stakes, seeds, and education can be shared and distributed with the gardeners in that cluster.  detroit's garden resource program collaborative also strengthens their gardening community by providing to their members transplants; education on gardening, policy, and food issues; and by building connectivity between gardeners through workgroups, potlucks, tours, fieldtrips, and cluster workdays. 

farmers' markets, such as the farmers' market in los angeles, provide a common land where farmers can sell their product to consumers. large cities tend to open their farmers markets on the weekends and one day in the middle of the week. for example, the farmers' market of rue richard lenoir in paris, france, is open on sundays and thursdays. however, to create a consumer dependency on urban agriculture and to introduce local food production as a sustainable career for farmers, markets would have to be open regularly. for example, the los angeles farmers' market is open seven days a week and has linked several local grocers together to provide different food products. the market s central location in downtown los angeles provides the perfect interaction for a diverse group of sellers to access their consumers.

individuals outside of the farmer/buyer market have incorporated food production into their urban fabric through roof gardens. roof gardens allow for urban dwellers to maintain green spaces in the city without having to set aside a tract of undeveloped land.

finding a labor force.
cities that are serious about introducing urban agriculture face the problem that there is no ready labor force to produce food. programs such as welfare-to-work offer a source of labor for the urban agriculture movement. this would cause the positive externality of lowering the unemployed and welfare-dependent population in large cities and suburban areas.

another proposal is to train prison inmates how to produce food. the san francisco county jail, in conjunction with tree corps and garden project, provide inmates with an agricultural education and individual plots to grow their own food. jails use horticulture to teach inmates how to work cooperatively with other inmates and also how to be responsible for their own nutrition and health. agriculture and gardening provide a fresh air environment for inmates in which they can learn skills that will help them assimilate into society. the san francisco county jail s recidivism rate dropped from 55% to 24% within two years of implementing the garden project. therefore prisons could begin to implement the garden project and transform the institutions into rehabilitation and agriculture education facilities. ex-convicts could then fill the labor gap for urban agriculture projects.

sustaining a labor force.
schools have begun to implement agricultural curricula into traditional school environments. the waldorf school campuses use school-wide community gardening to teach nutrition to the students. such organization exposes students in urban environments to rural agricultural practices that they would not have been exposed to otherwise. students are taught to appreciate agriculture as an integral part of their urban education; this education in turn provides an avenue for a future career in urban agriculture. introducing nutrition through agriculture in urban and peri-urban school thus increases the likelihood that an urban agricultural labor force will be sustained in future generations.

community centers and gardens educate the community to see agriculture as an integral part of urban life. the florida house institute for sustainable development in sarasota, florida, serves as a public community and education center in which innovators with sustainable, energy-saving ideas can implement and test them. community centers like florida house provide urban areas with a central location to learn about urban agriculture and to begin to integrate agriculture with the urban lifestyle. 

other examples of community centers are greensgrow farm in philadelphia and northey street city farm in brisbane, australia. greensgrow uses an abandoned site as an urban farm to teach the community how food is grown and how to grow their own food. northey street city farm hosts weekly community activities to educate and involve local residents in agricultural practices.

government interaction.
another way in which urban agricultural practices could be advanced is through government interaction. one researcher proposes tax breaks be given to sellers and buyers of locally-grown food. other researchers suggest discounts be given at farmers  markets or tariffs be placed on imported foods that can be grown locally.

 limitations .
urban agriculture has been criticized by those who believe that industrial farm production can produce food at larger volumes more efficiently.

a major argument is whether urban farming alone - that is farming very intensively on small land areas - could replace land extensive production in rural areas which produce the bulk of our food products.  yet, hunger persists in both urban and rural areas (see more on food security), despite a subsidized industrial agriculture. the degree to which urban agriculture can address these food needs systemically is undetermined, though there are indications in some communities it is an important source of food .

other opponents argue that localized food production and the introduction of common resources and common lands into the urban areas would produce a tragedy of the commons.  though, as referenced earlier, many urban farms and community gardens are managed privately or through other civil society organizations.

a potential concern associated with urban agriculture is suspected or real soil contamination, which can be costly to address.  however, strategies exist to improve the soil quality safely  while still meeting the food needs of urban residents .

references.
southside community land trust, providence, ri;
south central farm, los angeles;
greensgrow farms, philadelphia;
the talking farm, evanston, il;
"making san diego an 'edible' city";
northey street city farm;
sustainable table;
urban agriculture and community food security in the united states.
water, land, and health of urban and peri-urban food production: the case of kano, nigeria;
pacione, micheal. "local exchange trading systems - a rural response to the globalization of capitalism?" journal of rural studies. vol. 13, no. 4
pothukuchi, kameswari, and jerome l kaufman - placing the food system on the urban agenda ;
urban agriculture what & why (ruaf);
jacobi, drescher & amend - urban agriculture - justification and planning guidelines;

see also.
allotment gardens;
asset-based community development (abcd);
community food security coalition;
community gardens;
container garden;
ecological sanitation;
intercultural garden;
living wall;
permaculture;
vertical farming;
sustainable agriculture;
rooftop gardens;

external links.
city farmer's urban agriculture notes;
ruaf- resource centres on urban agriculture and food security];
fao electronic conference;
periurban vegetable project (puvep), philippines;
growing power, milwaukee, wi (usa);
original farmers' market;
florida house learning center;
waldorf schools of north america;
collingwood children's farm;
path to freedom - urban agriculture & sustainability;
nri internet forum;
new farm city - urban agriculture;
international development research centre;
detroit garden resource program collaborative;
earthworks urban farm;








</doc>
<doc id="7487095" title="fri?ka" nonfiltered="973" processed="959" dbindex="983">


fri ka is a village and municipality in bardejov district in the pre\a8ov region of north-east slovakia.
<br?
-fricka-
can mean anything such as frick yourself can mean go clean yourself or go free yourself.

history.
in historical records the village was first mentioned in 1618.

geography.
the municipality lies at an altitude of 500 metres and covers an area of 8.279km\b2.
it has a population of about 255 people.


external links.
http://www.statistics.sk/mosmis/eng/run.html;









</doc>
<doc id="4827586" title="ormara airport" nonfiltered="974" processed="960" dbindex="984">







ormara airport  is a domestic airport, located at ormara, balochistan, pakistan. 

airlines and destinations.
 pakistan international airlines (karachi, pasni, turbat) ;

 see also .
 list of airports in pakistan;
 airlines of pakistan;
 transport in pakistan;
 pakistan civil aviation authority;

external link.
ormara airport at fallingrain.com;



</doc>
<doc id="2965186" title="eric cunningham" nonfiltered="975" processed="961" dbindex="985">
eric gordon cunningham (born april 14, 1949) is a former politician in ontario, canada.  he served in the legislative assembly of ontario from 1975 to 1984, as a member of the ontario liberal party.

cunningham was born in hamilton, ontario, and educated at the university of western ontario and mcmaster university.  he worked as an advertising executive, was a founder of the ontario new liberal association, and received a provincial recognition award in 1968.

he campaigned for the canadian house of commons in the 1974 federal election as a candidate of the liberal party of canada, and lost to progressive conservative bill kempling by 668 votes in halton wentworth.  he was elected to the ontario legislature in a provincial election the following year, defeating progressive conservative incumbent don ewen by 1,977 votes in wentworth north.  he was re-elected by an increased majority in the 1977 election, and defeated progressive conservative challenger ann sloat in 1981.  he supported jim breithaupt for the liberal party leadership in 1982, and resigned from the legislature in 1984 to run federally a second time.

cunningham was defeated in the 1984 federal election, losing to progressive conservative candidate geoff scott by over 10,000 votes amid brian mulroney's landslide victory across the country.

cunningham joined united water canada in 1999, as vice-president of business development responsible for canada.  in 2002, he told an interviewer that his company was investigating possibilities with several canadian municipalities for private sector expansion in water treatment.

cunningham has also remained active in the liberal party.  in 2004, he supported tony valeri over sheila copps for the federal party's contested nomination in hamilton east stoney creek.






</doc>
<doc id="92043" title="tulsa county, oklahoma" nonfiltered="976" processed="962" dbindex="986">

tulsa county is a county located in the u.s. state of oklahoma.  as of 2000, the population was 563,299.  its county seat is tulsa and is the most densely populated county in oklahoma.

geography.
according to the u.s. census bureau, the county has a total area of 1,520 km\b2 (587 mi\b2).  1,477 km\b2 (570 mi\b2) of it is land and 43 km\b2 (17 mi\b2) of it (2.85%) is water.
adjacent counties .
washington county  (north);
rogers county  (northeast);
wagoner county  (southeast);
okmulgee county  (south);
creek county  (west);
pawnee county & osage county  (northwest);

demographics.
as of the census\b2 of 2000, there were 563,299 people, 226,892 households, and 147,252 families residing in the county.  the population density was 381/km\b2 (988/mi\b2).  there were 243,953 housing units at an average density of 165/km\b2 (428/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the county was 75.02% white, 10.95% black or african american, 5.20% native american, 1.62% asian, 0.05% pacific islander, 2.77% from other races, and 4.40% from two or more races.  5.97% of the population were hispanic or latino of any race.

there were 226,892 households out of which 32.20% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 49.10% were married couples living together, 12.10% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.10% were non-families. 29.60% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.90% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 2.43 and the average family size was 3.03.

in the county, the population was spread out with 26.30% under the age of 18, 10.00% from 18 to 24, 30.40% from 25 to 44, 21.60% from 45 to 64, and 11.80% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 34 years. for every 100 females there were 94.20 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 90.90 males.

the median income for a household in the county was $38,213, and the median income for a family was $47,489. males had a median income of $35,495 versus $25,680 for females. the per capita income for the county was $21,115.  about 8.70% of families and 11.60% of the population were below the poverty line, including 15.60% of those under age 18 and 8.30% of those age 65 or over.

 cities and towns .



 unincorporated communities .
berryhill;
lotsee;
turley;

 nrhp sites .
the following sites in tulsa county are listed on the national register of historic places:




external links .
tulsas county government's website;








</doc>
<doc id="959237" title="tom kelly (baseball)" nonfiltered="977" processed="963" dbindex="987">

jay thomas kelly (born august 15, 1950 in graceville, minnesota), also referred to as tk, is the former manager of the minnesota twins baseball team from 1986 to 2001.  currently, he serves as a special assistant to the general manager for the twins.

managerial career.
he was the 11th manager of the team and his tenure as manager was the longest in team history.  under his tenure, the twins won two world series crowns in the span of five years (1987 and 1991); however, from 1994 to 1997 a long sequence of retirements and injuries (including superstars kent hrbek and kirby puckett) hurt the team badly, and kelly spent the remainder of his managerial career rebuilding the twins.

in 1998, management cleared out the team of all of its players earning over 1 million dollars (except for pitcher brad radke) and rebuilt from the ground up; the team barely avoided finishing in the cellar that year, finishing just five games ahead of then-perennial cellar dwellers detroit tigers and avoiding the humiliating mark of 100 losses by just eight games.  his efforts paid off the year after he retired from the twins, with a threepeat of divisional championships in 2002, 2003, and 2004. kelly was succeeded as manager of the twins by ron gardenhire.  kelly also played for the twins during the 1975 season, his only in the majors.

managerial style.
kelly's managerial style has been described as "even-keel," emphasizing consistent performance over the span of a season rather than flashy individual game performance.  under his and successor gardenhire's leadership, the twins have been widely known for playing the kind of fundamental baseball that wins ball games consistently, rather than having individual superstar players, although a number of well-known stars have emerged from the twins organization under their leadership (most notably kirby puckett, torii hunter), and joe mauer.

1987 world series.
a year after taking over the reins of the twins from ray miller, kelly took the team that he had helped build through his role as one of the top people in the twins' minor league organization and led it to a world series championship. though the '87 twins were criticized for being the top team in a weak division (amassing only a .525 record in regular season play, which was the worst winning percentage for an eventual world champion until surpassed by the st louis cardinals in 2006), they easily handled the detroit tigers in five games, losing only game 3 of the american league championship series to a heartbreaking 8th-inning two-run dinger.

the world series was a well-fought contest between the twins and the national league champion st. louis cardinals, each team winning all of its home games.  games 1, 2, 4 and 6 were decidedly lopsided contests (10-1 twins, 8-4 twins, 7-2 cards, 11-5 twins), with games 3, 5 and 7 being much closer contests, each being decided by only two runs (3-1 cards, 4-2 cards and 4-2 twins).

unlike in many other cities after major championship victories, the victory celebration in the streets of minneapolis was very notable in that it did not become a sports riot, owing partially to strong deployed police presence around the metrodome and partially to the generally reserved nature of minnesota fans. after a 63-year drought, tom kelly's leadership helped propel the twins to their second world championship (the first coming in 1924 as the washington senators).

managerial records.



references.
tom kelly managerial record. baseball-reference.com.




















</doc>
<doc id="8030694" title="jadugoda" nonfiltered="978" processed="964" dbindex="988">
jadugoda is a small township of uranium corporation india limited situated in the singhbhum district of jharkhand state in eastern india. it is located approximately 35 km by road and 20 km by train from the steel city of jamshedpur. this was the first mines where uranium was produced in india on a reasonable scale. the township was established in 1965 and it was way ahead of its time with modern school, clubs with tennis courts and a full-fledged hospital.
the school here was part of the chain of schools called atomic energy central school. students of this school have done quite well and can be found all across the globe.

being in a relatively backward state of india, namely jharkhand, jadugoda is replete with reports of people suffering from radiation. the worst affected is the yonger generation, mostly poor villager's sons and daughters who have no say in the government.




</doc>
<doc id="455788" title="australian general election, 1998" nonfiltered="979" processed="965" dbindex="989">


legislative elections were held in australia on 3 october 1998. all 148 seats in the house of representatives and 40 seats in the 76-member senate were up for election. the conservative coalition of the liberal party, led by prime minister john howard, and the national party of australia, led by tim fischer, was elected to a second three-year term, defeating the australian labor party led by kim beazley. the election chose the members of the australian house of representatives, 1998-2001 and half of the members of the australian senate, 1999-2002.

despite labor gaining 51 percent of the two party preferred vote, they fell short by 8 seats.

national summary of votes and seats.

house of representatives.

 ======================================================================
 party                         votes       %    change   seats
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 liberal party                  3,800,721  34.2 (-04.6)   64 (-11)    
 national party of australia      588,088  05.3 (-03.0)   16 (-02)     
 australian labor party         4,454,306  40.1 (+01.4)   67 (+18)    
 pauline hanson's one nation      936,621  08.4            -
 australian democrats             569,935  05.1 (-01.7)    -
 australian greens                290,709  02.6            -
 others                           468,683  04.0            1 (-04)
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 total                         11,109,063                148
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------

senate.

 ======================================================================
 party                         votes       %    change   seats
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 liberal / national party       4,225,736  37.7 (-05.9)  17
 australian labor party         4,182,963  37.3 (+01.2)  17
 pauline hanson's one nation    1,007,439  09.0           1
 australian democrats             947,940  08.4 (-02.4)   4
 australian greens                305,228  02.7           -
 others                           542,597  04.9           1
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 total                         11,211,903                40
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 in senate elections the liberal and national parties run joint tickets 
 in some states.

trivia.
the 1998 election included the first publicised incident of online electoral conflict when the liberal website was allegedly cracked by supporters of the labor party.  at the time both major parties had their sites hosted with the same isp, but this aspect had been kept from the media at the time.

source: adam carr's electoral archive








</doc>
<doc id="9371849" title="smpte 424m" nonfiltered="980" processed="966" dbindex="990">
"smpte 424m" is a standard published by smpte which expands upon smpte 259m, smpte 344m, and smpte 292m allowing for bit-rates of 2.970 gbit/s, and 2.970/1.001 gbit/s. these bit-rates are sufficient for 1080p video.


this standard is part of a family of standards that define a serial digital interface (based on a coax cable) intended to be used for transport of uncompressed digital video (and audio) this interface is usually called sdi or 3g-sdi.

see also.
serial digital interface

smpte 259m

smpte 344m

smpte 292m

smpte 372m

=references=




</doc>
<doc id="145753" title="hydrosphere" nonfiltered="981" processed="967" dbindex="991">


hydrosphere (greek hydro means "water") in physical geography, describes the collective mass of water found on, under, and over the surface of a planet.

earth's hydrosphere.
the earth's hydrosphere consists chiefly of oceans, but technically includes all water surfaces in the world, including inland seas, lakes, rivers, and underground waters. the average depth of the oceans is 3,794 m (12,447 ft), more than five times the average height of the continents. the mass of the oceans is approximately 1.35 \d7 1018  tonnes, or about 1/4400 of the total mass of the earth (ranges reported:  1.347 \d7 1021 to 1.4 \d7 1021 kg. )

the abundance of water on earth is a unique feature that distinguishes our "blue planet" from others in the solar system. approximately 70.8 percent (97% of it being sea water and 3% fresh water) of the earth is covered by water and only 29.2 percent is landmass. earth's solar orbit, vulcanism, gravity, greenhouse effect, magnetic field and oxygen-rich atmosphere seem to combine to make earth a water planet.

earth is actually beyond the outer edge of the orbits which would be warm enough to form liquid water. without some form of a greenhouse effect, earth's water would freeze. paleontological evidence indicates that at one point after blue-green bacteria (cyanobacteria) had colonized the oceans, the greenhouse effect failed, and earth's oceans may have completely frozen over for 10 to 100 million years in what is called a snowball earth event.

on other planets, such as venus, gaseous water is destroyed (cracked) by solar ultraviolet radiation, and the hydrogen is ionized and blown away by the solar wind. this effect is slow, but inexorable. this is one hypothesis explaining why venus has no water. without hydrogen, the oxygen interacts with the surface and is bound up in solid minerals.

in the earth's atmosphere, a tenuous layer of ozone within the stratosphere absorbs most of this energetic ultraviolet radiation high in the atmosphere, reducing the cracking effect. the ozone, too, can only be produced in an atmosphere with a large amount of free diatomic oxygen, and so also is dependent on the biosphere (plants). the magnetosphere also shields the ionosphere from direct scouring by the solar wind.

finally, volcanism continuously emits water vapor from the interior. earth's plate tectonics recycle carbon and water as limestone rocks are subducted into the mantle and volcanically released as gaseous carbon dioxide and steam. it is estimated that the minerals in the mantle may contain as much as 10 times the water as in all of the current oceans, though most of this trapped water will never be released.

the water cycle describes the methods of transport for water in the hydrosphere.  this cycle includes water beneath the earth's surface and in rocks (lithosphere), the water in plants and animals (biosphere), the water covering the surface of the planet in liquid and solid forms, and the water in the atmosphere in the form of water vapor, clouds, and precipitation. movement of water within the hydrosphere is described by the hydrologic cycle. it is easy to see this motion in rivers and streams, but it is harder to tell that there is this motion in lakes and ponds.

the water in the oceans moves as it is of different temperature and salinity on different locations. surface waters are also moved by winds, giving rise to surface ocean currents. warm water is lighter or less dense than cold water which is more dense or heavier and salty water is also more dense than fresh water. the combination of the water's temperature and salinity determines whether it rises to the surface, sinks to the bottom, or stays at some intermediate depth.

history.
formation.

there are several theories regarding the formation of the hydrosphere on the earth.  the planet contains proportionately more surface water than comparable bodies in the inner solar system. outgassing of water from the interior of the earth is not sufficient to explain the quantity of water.

a hypothesis that has gained popularity among scientists is that the early earth was subjected to a period of bombardment by comets and water-rich asteroids. much of the water on the surface today is thought to have originated from the outer parts of the solar system, such as from trans-neptunian objects.

ice ages.

during the history of the earth there have been a series of periods in which a significant portion of the hydrosphere was locked up in the form of glacial ice. it has even been hypothesized that during the cryogenian period this sea ice extended all the way to the equator. (see snowball earth).

in all there are currently believed to have been four major ice ages during the earth's history. the current ice age began about 40 million years ago, and gained in intensity during the pleistocene. the most recent withdrawal of the ice sheets occurred only 10,000 years ago.

life.
all currently recognized forms of life rely on an active hydrosphere.  all organic chemistry indicative of life occurs with water as its solvent.  the water cycle in the earth's hydrosphere allows for the purification of salt water into fresh water.  evaporation and wetland swamps serve to remove a large portion of atmospheric pollutants from the atmosphere (ie. acid rain).  through this process the water cycle purifies the gaseous atmosphere.  although most life on the planet exists in the salt water oceans, humans are particularly interested in the hydrosphere because it provides the fresh water we depend upon.

the search for life in other celestial bodies in our solar system is focused on first locating water.  the hydrosphere's of other planetary bodies is also the focus of research to find places that humans can inhabit without having to transport all their water with them.

extinction.
scientists estimate that in approximately 4   109 years the sun will have exhausted the supply of hydrogen in its core and will evolve into a supergiant. the outer atmosphere will expand significantly and the planet earth will lie within the photosphere. during this process the surface temperature will rise far above the boiling point of water, and all water on the earth's surface will evaporate.

other hydrospheres.
a thick hydrosphere is thought to exist around the jovian moon europa. the outer layer of this hydrosphere is almost entirely frozen, but current models predict that there is an ocean up to 100 km in depth underneath the ice. this ocean remains in a liquid form due to tidal flexing of the moon in its orbit around jupiter.

it has been suggested that the moon ganymede may also possess a sub-surface ocean. however the ice covering is expected to be thicker on ganymede than on europa.

see also.
 biosphere;
 cryosphere;
 earth's atmosphere;
 lithosphere;
 pedosphere;
 water cycle;

external links.

ground water - usgs;



































</doc>
<doc id="459067" title="flag of fiji" nonfiltered="982" processed="968" dbindex="992">


the flag of fiji was adopted on october 10, 1970. the state arms have been slightly modified but the flag has remained the same.  it is a defaced sky-blue "blue ensign" (the actual blue ensign version of the flag is the government ensign). it has remained unchanged since fiji was declared a republic in 1987, despite calls from some politicians (such as opposition senator atu emberson-bain) for changes.

the current flag is very similar to the colonial ensign used prior to independence, the main differences being the latter used a darker shade of blue and displayed the entire fijian coat of arms as opposed to just the shield. while some reformists have called for the removal of the union jack, seeing it a british colonial emblem, others support its retention for the sake of historical continuity.  the flags of other independent countries, such as australia, new zealand and tuvalu retain the royal union flag in their national flags.  

some influential fijians have called for the restoration of the full coat of arms to the flag.  on november 30, 2005, fiji's great council of chiefs called for the two warrior figures, who guard the shield on the coat of arms, to be placed on the flag, along with a miniature canoe and the national motto, rerevaka na kalou ka doka na tui ("fear god and honour the queen")   symbols that were featured on the original flag of the kingdom of viti, the first unified fijian state, forged by seru epenisa cakobau in 1871.

"the coat of arms is very significant because it has the word of god, then it has the two warriors and the fijian canoe also. i think that the council members prefer that the full coat of arms be included in the fiji flag," said asesela sadole, general secretary of the great council of chiefs. 

ensigns of fiji.

image:government ensign of fiji.svg| government ensign
image:naval ensign of fiji.svg| naval ensign
image:civil air ensign of fiji.svg|civil air ensign

sources:
high commission of the republic of the fiji islands to new zealand - history. "ensigns for use in government vessels, in merchant ships and in naval vessels are of the same basic design, but have dark blue, red and white background respectively". accessed 2 feb. 2006 ;
barraclough, e. m. c. and crampton, w. g. (1978). flags of the world. london: frederick warne. isbn 0-7232-2015-8. p. 209 et seq. "the civil air ensign is like that of britain, except that it has the shield of fiji placed on the arm of the cross.";





see also.
 gallery of flags based on british ensigns;

external link.
;





















</doc>
<doc id="161022" title="indian independence movement" nonfiltered="983" processed="969" dbindex="993">


the indian independence movement incorporated the efforts by indians to liberate the region from british rule and form the nation-state of india. it involved a wide spectrum of indian political organizations, philosophies, and rebellions between 1857 and india's emergence as a unified nation-state on august 15, 1947. 

the initial indian rebellion of 1857 was sparked when soldiers serving in the british east india company's british army and indian kingdoms rebelled against the british. after the revolt was crushed, the british partitioned the region into british india and the princely states. they tried to develop a class of educated elites, whose political organizing sought indian political rights and representation. however, increasing public disenchantment with the british authority   their curtailing of indian civil liberties (such as the rowlatt act), political rights, and culture as well as their avoidance of basic  issues facing common indians and an essential nonacceptance of foreign occupation   led to an upsurge in revolutionary activities aimed at overthrowing the european colonial powers, particularly the british. 

the movement came to a head between 1918 and 1922 when the first series of non-violent campaigns of civil disobedience were launched by the indian national congress under the leadership of mohandas gandhi   whose methods were to a large extent inspired by the philosophy and methods of baba ram singh, a sikh who led the kuka movement in the punjab in the 1870s.  gandhi's movement came to encompass people from across india and across all walks of life. these initial civil disobedience movements soon came to be the  driving force that ultimately shaped the cultural, religious, and political unity of a diverse nation. 

committing itself to purna swaraj in 1930, the congress led mass struggles between 1930 and 1932. by the late 1930s, however, with growing disenchantments over the delaying tactics of the raj and the congress's failure to extract commitment on self-rule and political independence, a faction within the movement turned towards more radical ideas of subhash chandra bose. bose's actions proved controversial among the congress party but popular within the indian populace, when bose defeated gandhi's candidate in leadership elections in the tripuri session of the congress working committee. however, this was the parting of ways between the radicals and the conservatives. bose left the congress to found his own party during the war, seeking first soviet and then axis help to raise a liberation force. the raising of the indian national army in 1942 by subhash chandra bose would see a unique military campaign to end british rule. following the trial of indian national army officers at the red fort, mutinies broke out in the navy, in the air force, and in the army. the congress also led a civil disobedience movement in 1942 demanding that the british leave india (a movement called the quit india movement).  following these and widespread communal rioting in calcutta, the raj ended on the mid-night of 15th august, 1947, but only at the expense of the partition of the country into india and pakistan.


european rule.


european traders came to indian shores with the arrival of portuguese explorer vasco da gama in 1498 at the port of calicut in search of the lucrative spice trade. after the 1757 battle of plassey, during which the british army under robert clive defeated the nawab of bengal, the british east india company established itself. this is widely seen as the beginning of the british raj in india. the company gained administrative rights over bengal, bihar, and orissa in 1765 after the battle of buxar. they then annexed punjab in 1849 after the death of maharaja ranjit singh in 1839 and the first anglo-sikh war (1845 1846) and then the second anglo-sikh war (1848 49).

the british parliament enacted a series of laws to handle the administration of the newly-conquered provinces, including the regulating act of 1773, the india act of 1784, and the charter act of 1813; all enhanced the british government's rule. in 1835 english was made the medium of instruction. western-educated hindu elites sought to rid hinduism of controversial social practices, including the varna (caste) system, child marriage, and sati. literary and debating societies initiated in bombay and madras became fora for open political discourse.  the educational attainment and skillful use of the press by these early reformers created the growing possibility for effecting broad reforms, all without compromising larger indian social values and religious practices.

even while these modernising trends influenced indian society, indians increasingly despised british rule. the memoirs of henry ouvry of the 9th lancers record many "a good thrashing" to careless servants. a spice merchant, frank brown, wrote to his nephew that stories of maltreatment of servants had not been exaggerated and that he knew people who kept orderlies "purposely to thrash them". as the british increasingly dominated the continent, they grew increasingly abusive of local customs by, for example, staging parties in mosques, dancing to the music of regimental bands on the terrace of the taj mahal, using whips to force their way through crowded bazaars (as recounted by general henry blake), and mistreating sepoys. in the years after the annexation of punjab in 1849, several mutinies among sepoys broke out; these were put down by force.

regional movements prior to 1857.
 and polygar wars
several regional movements against foreign rule were staged in various parts of pre-1857 india. however, they were not united and were easily controlled by the foreign rulers. examples include the sannyasi rebellion in bengal in the 1770s, the 1787 ethnic revolt against portuguese control of goa known as the conspiracy of the pintos, the revolt of titumir in bengal in 1830's and uprisings by south indian local chieftains against british rule. notable among the latter is veerapandya kattabomman, who ruled the present-day tuticorin district of tamil nadu. he questioned the need for native indians to pay taxes on agricultural produce to foreign rulers and battled the british until the latter, victorious, hanged him. other movements included the santal rebellion and the resistance offered to the british by titumir in bengal, the kittur rebellion led by rani chennamma and sangolli rayanna in karnataka.

one well fought conflict against the british troops was the polygar wars that were fought  from 1798 to 1802 in tamil nadu.  the second war was very covert and clandestine in nature and was fought by the polygars.  they were defeated; many were hanged and several of the chieftains were permanently banished from india.

the first war of independence, 1857.


the first war of independence of 1857 was a period of uprising in northern and central india against british rule in 1857 58. 

the rebellion was the result of decades of ethnic and cultural differences between indian soldiers and their british officers. the indifference of the british towards indian rulers like the mughals and ex-peshwas and the annexation of oudh were political factors triggering dissent amongst indians. dalhousie s policy of annexation, the doctrine of lapse or escheat, and the projected removal of the descendants of the great mughal from their ancestral palace to the qutb, near delhi also angered some people. the specific reason that triggered the rebellion was the rumoured use of cow and pig fat in .557 calibre pattern 1853 enfield (p/53) rifle cartridges. soldiers had to break the cartridges with their teeth before loading them into their rifles, so if there was cow and pig fat, it would be offensive to hindu and muslim soldiers.  in february 1857, sepoys (indian soldiers in the british army) refused to use their new cartridges. the british claimed to have replaced the cartridges with new ones and tried to make sepoys make their own grease from beeswax and vegetable oils, but the rumour persisted.

in march 1857, mangal pandey, a soldier of the 34th native infantry, attacked his british sergeant and wounded an adjutant. general hearsay, who said pandey was in some kind of "religious frenzy," ordered a jemadar to arrest him but the jemadar refused. mangal pandey was hanged on 7 april along with the jemadar. the whole regiment was dismissed as a collective punishment. on may 10th, when the 11th and 20th cavalry assembled, they broke rank and turned on their commanding officers. they then liberated the 3rd regiment, and on 11 may the sepoys reached delhi and were joined by other indians. soon, the revolt spread throughout northern india. some notable leaders were ahmed ullah, an advisor of the ex-king of oudh; nana sahib; his nephew rao sahib and his retainers, tantia topi and azimullah khan; the rani of jhansi; kunwar singh; the rajput chief of jagadishpur in bihar; firuz saha, a relative of the mughal emperor, bahadur shah and pran sukh yadav who along with rao tula ram of rewari fought with britishers at nasibpur, haryana.

the red fort, the residence of the last mughal emperor bahadur, was attacked and captured by the sepoys. they demanded that he reclaim his throne. he was reluctant at first, but eventually agreed to the demands and became the leader of the rebellion.


about the same time in jhansi, the army rebelled and killed the british army officers. revolts also broke out in places like meerut, kanpur, lucknow etc. the british were slow to respond, but eventually responded with brute force. british moved regiments from the crimean war and diverted european regiments headed for china to india. the british fought the main army of the rebels near delhi in badl-ke-serai and drove them back to delhi before laying siege on the city. the siege of delhi lasted roughly from 1 july to 31 august. after a week of street fighting, the british retook the city. the last significant battle was fought in gwalior on 20 june 1858. it was during this battle that rani lakshmi bai was killed. sporadic fighting continued until 1859 but most of the rebels were subdued. 

aftermath.
the war of 1857 was a major turning point in the history of modern india. the british abolished the british east india company and replaced it with direct rule under the british crown. a viceroy was appointed to represent the crown. in proclaiming the new direct-rule policy to "the princes, chiefs, and peoples of india," queen victoria promised equal treatment under british law, but indian mistrust of british rule had become a legacy of the 1857 rebellion. 

the british embarked on a program of reform and political restructuring, trying to integrate indian higher castes and rulers into the government. they stopped land grabs, decreed religious tolerance and admitted indians into the civil service, albeit mainly as subordinates. they also increased the number of british soldiers in relation to native ones and allowed only british soldiers to handle artillery.  bahadur shah was exiled to rangoon, burma where he died in 1862, finally bringing the mughal dynasty to an end. in 1877, queen victoria took the title of empress of india.

rise of organised movements.


the decades following the sepoy rebellion were a period of growing political awareness, manifestation of indian public opinion and emergence of indian leadership at national and provincial levels. 

the influences of socio-religious groups, especially in a nation where religion plays a vital role cannot be ignored. the arya samaj was an important hindu organization which sought to reform hindu society of social evils and counteract christian missionary propaganda.  swami dayanand saraswati's work was important in increasing an attitude of self-awareness, pride and community service in common indian peoples. raja ram mohan roy's brahmo samaj was also a pioneer in the reform of indian society, fighting evils like sati, dowry, ignorance and illiteracy. 

in tamil nadu (during 1910's) one of the earliest challenges to the imperial british trade monopoly was attempted by v. o. chidambaram pillai. a lawyer born in ottapidaram, tirunelveli district of tamil nadu, he later started a small shipping company offering services to ceylon in competition to the british.  he was later to be arrested and put to rigorous imprisonment, with his bar license stripped. later he would die penniless in kovilpatti. he would later inspire another freedom fighter, vanjinathan, who killed then collector ash and shot himself.

the inculcation of religious reform and social pride was fundamental to the rise of a public movement for complete nationhood.  the work of men like swami vivekananda, ramakrishna paramhansa, sri aurobindo, subramanya bharathy, bankim chandra chatterjee, sir syed ahmed khan, rabindranath tagore and dadabhai naoroji spread the passion for rejuvenation and freedom. lokmanya tilak, though with non-moderate views, was very popular amongst the masses. he gave the concept of swaraj to the indian peoples while standing trial. his popular sentence "swaraj is my birthright, and i shall have it" became the source of inspiration for indians. the flames of the spirit of freedom were ignited by learned men like them, who gave reason for common indians to feel proud of themselves, demand political and social freedom and seek happiness. they were the teachers who sparked the passion of learning and achievement for thousands of indians, and the poets expressing the inner fires of the freedom-fighter's soul. 

the moplah rebellion occurred in 1921. it was a british-muslim and hindu-muslim conflict in kerala. the reasons for the moplah rebellion are rooted in religious revivalism among the muslim moplahs (also known as mappilas), disaffection with british governance, and resentment at the land owning hindu nair community. events following the khilafat movement helped organize moplahs and gave impetus to their actions. during the early months of 1921, multiple events including the khilafat movement and the karachi resolution fueled the fires of rebellion. a rumour spread amongst the moplahs that the british rule had ended and the islamic caliphate had been re-established at delhi. on aug 20, the first incident of the rebellion occurred at tirurangadi when the district magistrate of calicut with the help of troops attempted to arrest a few moplah leaders who were in the possession of arms, resulting in clashes. arsonists took to the street, burning and destroying government property. the initial focus was on the british, but when the limited presence of the british was eliminated, moplahs turned their full attention on the hindus. by the end of 1921 the situation was brought back under control by the british with the help of a quasi-military battalion. according to official records, the government lost 43 troops with 126 wounded while the moplahs lost 3,000 (with moplah accounts putting the number at over 10,000). though this was an act of courage against british rule, it was also an act of savagery against the hindus, on whom unspeakable crimes were committed, especially the women. due to this, it is also considered as a jihad against all non-muslims (hindu and british) to impose islamic rule in the area.

inspired by a suggestion made by a.o. hume, a retired british civil servant, seventy-three indian delegates met in bombay in 1885 and founded the indian national congress. they were mostly members of the upwardly mobile and successful western-educated provincial elites, engaged in professions such as law, teaching, and journalism.  they had acquired political experience from regional competition in the professions and by securing nomination to various positions in legislative councils, universities, and special commissions.

it should be noted that dadabhai naoroji had already formed the indian national association a few years before the congress. the ina merged into the congress party to form a bigger national front. 

at its inception, the congress had no well-defined ideology and commanded few of the resources essential to a political organization. it functioned more as a debating society that met annually to express its loyalty to the british raj and passed numerous resolutions on less controversial issues such as civil rights or opportunities in government, especially the civil service. these resolutions were submitted to the viceroy's government and occasionally to the british parliament, but the congress's early gains were meagre. despite its claim to represent all india, the congress voiced the interests of urban elites; the number of participants from other economic backgrounds remained negligible.

by 1900, although the congress had emerged as an all-india political organization, its achievement was undermined by its singular failure to attract muslims, who felt that their representation in government service was inadequate. attacks by hindu reformers against religious conversion, cow slaughter, and the preservation of urdu in arabic script deepened their concerns of minority status and denial of rights if the congress alone were to represent the people of india. sir syed ahmed khan launched a movement for muslim regeneration that culminated in the founding in 1875 of the muhammadan anglo-oriental college at aligarh, uttar pradesh (renamed aligarh muslim university in 1921). its objective was to educate wealthy students by emphasizing the compatibility of islam with modern western knowledge. the diversity among india's muslims, however, made it impossible to bring about uniform cultural and intellectual regeneration.

partition of bengal.

in 1905, lord curzon, the viceroy and governor-general (1899 1905), ordered the partition of the province of bengal for improvements in administrative efficiency in that huge and populous region, where the bengali hindu intelligentsia exerted considerable influence on local and national politics. the partition created two provinces: eastern bengal & assam, with its capital at dhaka, and west bengal, with its capital at calcutta (which also served as the capital of british india). an ill-conceived and hastily implemented action, the partition outraged bengalis. not only had the government failed to consult indian public opinion, but the action appeared to reflect the british resolve to divide and rule. widespread agitation ensued in the streets and in the press, and the congress advocated boycotting british products under the banner of swadeshi. during this period nationalist poet rabindranath tagore penned and composed a song (roughly translated into english as "the soil of bengal, the water of bengal be hallowed ") and himself led people to the streets singing the song and tying rakhi on each other's wrists. the people did not cook any food (arandhan) on that day.

the congress-led boycott of british goods was so successful that it unleashed anti-british forces to an extent unknown since the sepoy rebellion. a cycle of violence and repression ensued in some parts of the country (see alipore bomb case). the british tried to mitigate the situation by announcing a series of constitutional reforms in 1909 and by appointing a few moderates to the imperial and provincial councils.  a muslim deputation met with the viceroy, lord minto (1905 10), seeking concessions from the impending constitutional reforms, including special considerations in government service and electorates. the all-india muslim league was founded the same year to promote loyalty to the british and to advance muslim political rights, which the british recognized by increasing the number of elective offices reserved for muslims in the india councils act of 1909.  the muslim league insisted on its separateness from the hindu-dominated congress, as the voice of a "nation within a nation."

in what the british saw as an additional goodwill gesture, in 1911 king-emperor george v visited india for a durbar (a traditional court held for subjects to express fealty to their ruler), during which he announced the reversal of the partition of bengal and the transfer of the capital from calcutta to a newly planned city to be built immediately south of delhi, which later became new delhi.

world war i.
world war i began with an unprecedented outpouring of loyalty and goodwill towards the united kingdom, contrary to initial british fears of an indian revolt. india contributed massively to the british war effort by providing men and resources. about 1.3 million indian soldiers and labourers served in europe, africa, and the middle east, while both the indian government and the princes sent large supplies of food, money, and ammunition. but high casualty rates, soaring inflation compounded by heavy taxation, a widespread influenza epidemic, and the disruption of trade during the war escalated human suffering in india. the prewar nationalist movement revived, as moderate and extremist groups within the congress submerged their differences in order to stand as a unified front. in 1916, the congress succeeded in forging the lucknow pact, a temporary alliance with the muslim league over the issues of devolution of political power and the future of islam in the region.

the british themselves adopted a "carrot and stick" approach in recognition of india's support during the war and in response to renewed nationalist demands. in august 1917, edwin montagu, the secretary of state for india, made the historic announcement in parliament that the british policy for india was "increasing association of indians in every branch of the administration and the gradual development of self-governing institutions with a view to the progressive realization of responsible government in india as an integral part of the british empire." the means of achieving the proposed measure were later enshrined in the government of india act of 1919, which introduced the principle of a dual mode of administration, or diarchy, in which both elected indian legislators and appointed british officials shared power. the act also expanded the central and provincial legislatures and widened the franchise considerably. diarchy set in motion certain real changes at the provincial level: a number of non-controversial or "transferred" portfolios, such as agriculture, local government, health, education, and public works, were handed over to indians, while more sensitive matters such as finance, taxation, and maintaining law and order were retained by the provincial british administrators.

the rowlatt act and its aftermath.


the positive impact of reform was seriously undermined in 1919 by the rowlatt act, named after the recommendations made the previous year to the imperial legislative council by the rowlatt commission, which had been appointed to investigate "seditious conspiracy." the rowlatt act, also known as the black act, vested the viceroy's government with extraordinary powers to quell sedition by silencing the press, detaining political activists without trial, and arresting any individuals suspected of sedition or treason without a warrant. in protest, a nationwide cessation of work (hartal) was called, marking the beginning of widespread, although not nationwide, popular discontent.
the agitation unleashed by the acts culminated on 13 april 1919, in the amritsar massacre (also known as the jallianwala bagh massacre) in amritsar, punjab. the british military commander, brigadier-general reginald dyer, ordered his soldiers to fire into an unarmed and unsuspecting crowd of some 10,000 people. they had assembled at jallianwala bagh, a walled garden, to celebrate baisakhi, a sikh festival, without prior knowledge of the imposition of martial law. a total of 1,650 rounds were fired, killing 379 people and wounding 1,137 in the episode, which dispelled wartime hopes of home rule and goodwill in a frenzy of post-war reaction.

the gandhian generation.



it can be argued that the movement, even towards the end of first world war, were far removed from the masses of india, focussing essentially on a unified commmerce-oriented territory and a far cry from the calls for an united nation, that came in the 1930s. possibly one of the factors that brought this movement to the masses was the entry of mohandas karamchand gandhi in indian politics in 1915.

gandhi had been a prominent leader of anti apartheid movement in south africa and had been vocal  basic discrimination and abusive labour treatment as well as  suppressive police control akin to the rowlatt acts. during these protests gandhi had perfected the concept of satyagraha, on which he had been inspired by the philosophy of baba ram singh(famous for leading the kuka movement in the punjab in 1872). the end of the protests in the country saw repeal of the legislations and release of political prisoners by general jan smuts, head of the south african government of the time. 

however gandhi, a stranger to india and it s politics after twenty years, had initially entered the fray not with calls for a nation-state, but in support of the unified commmerce-oriented territory, that the congress party had been asking for. gandhi, however, was of the opinion that the industrial development and educational development that the europeans brought with them was required to uplift india's problems.
a veteran congressman and indian leader gopal krishna gokhale became gandhi's mentor. gandhi's ideas and strategies of non-violent civil disobedience initially appeared impractical to some indians and veteran congressmen. in gandhi's own words, "civil disobedience is civil breach of unmoral statutory enactments," but as he viewed it, it had to be carried out non-violently by withdrawing cooperation with the corrupt state. gandhi's ability to inspire millions of common people was initiated when he used satyagraha during the anti-rowlatt act protests in punjab. 

gandhi s vision would soon bring the population of millions into the movement. in champaran, bihar, the congress party brought forth the plight of desperately poor sharecroppers, landless farmers who were being forced to grow cash crops at the expense of crops which formed their food supply, and pay oppressive taxes. neither were they sufficiently paid for sustenance. it was at this time also that the nationalist cause was integrated to the  interests and industries that formed the economy of common indians. the first satyagraha movement urged the use of khadi and indian material as alternatives to those shipped from britain. it also urged the boycott of british educational institutions, law courts,; to resign from government employment; to refuse to pay taxes; and to forsake british titles and honours. although this came too late to influence the framing of the new government of india act of 1919, the magnitude of disorder resulting from the movement was unparalleled and presented a new challenge to foreign rule. these movements found widespread support among a people awakening to a new sense of nationalism. however, the movement was called off by gandhi following the chauri chaura incident, which saw the death of twenty two policemen in the hands of an angry mob.

in 1920, the congress was reorganized and given a new constitution, whose goal was swaraj (independence) . membership in the party was opened to anyone prepared to pay a token fee, and a hierarchy of committees was established and made responsible for discipline and control over a hitherto amorphous and diffuse movement. the party was transformed from an elite organization to one of mass national appeal and participation.

gandhi was imprisoned in 1922 for six years, but was released after serving two. on his release from prison, he set up the sabarmati ashram in ahmedabad, on the banks of river sabarmati, established the newspaper young india, and inaugurated a series of reforms aimed at the socially disadvantaged within hindu society - the rural poor, and the untouchables. 

this era saw the emergence of new generation of indians from within the congress party, including c. rajagopalachari, jawaharlal nehru, vallabhbhai patel, subhash chandra bose and others- who would later on come to form the prominent voices of the indian independence movement, whether keeping with gandhian values, or diverging from it.

the indian political spectrum was further broadened in the mid-1920s by the emergence of both moderate and militant parties, such as the swaraj party, hindu mahasabha, communist party of india and the rashtriya swayamsevak sangh. regional political organizations also continued to represent the interests of non-brahmins in madras, mahars in maharashtra, and sikhs in punjab.

dandi march and the civil disobedience movement.


following the rejection of the recommendations of the simon commission by indians, an all-party conference was held at bombay in may 1928. the conference appointed a drafting committee under motilal nehru to draw up a constitution for india. the calcutta session of the indian national congress asked the british government to accord dominion status to india by december 1929, or a countrywide civil disobedience movement would be launched. the indian national congress, at its historic lahore session in december 1929, under the presidency of jawaharlal nehru, adopted a resolution to gain complete independence from the british. it authorised the working committee to launch a civil disobedience movement throughout the country. it was decided that 26 january 1930 should be observed all over india as the purna swaraj (complete independence) day. many indian political parties and indian revolutionaries of a wide spectrum united to observe the day with honour and pride. 

gandhi emerged from his long seclusion by undertaking his most famous campaign, a march of about 400 kilometres from his commune in ahmedabad to dandi, on the coast of gujarat between 12 march and 6 april, 1930. the march is usually known as the dandi march or the salt satyagraha. at dandi, in protest against british taxes on salt, he and thousands of followers broke the law by making their own salt from seawater.

in april 1930 there were violent police-crowd clashes in calcutta. approximately over 100,000 people were imprisoned in the course of the civil disobedience movement (1930-31), while in peshawar unarmed demonstrators were fired upon in the qissa khwani bazaar massacre. while gandhi was in jail, the first round table conference was held in london in november 1930, without representation from the indian national congress. the ban upon the congress was removed because of economic hardships caused by the satyagraha. gandhi, along with other members of the congress working committee, was released from prison in january 1931.

in march of 1931, the gandhi-irwin pact was signed, and the government agreed to set all political prisoners free (although, some of the key revolutionaries were not set free and the death sentence for bhagat singh and his two comrades was not taken back which further intensened the agitation against congress not only outside it but with in the congress it self). in return, gandhi agreed to discontinue the civil disobedience movement and participate as the sole representative of the congress in the second round table conference, which was held in london in september 1931. however, the conference ended in failure in december 1931. gandhi returned to india and decided to resume the civil disobedience movement in january 1932.

for the next few years, the congress and the government were locked in conflict and negotiations until what became the government of india act of 1935 could be hammered out. by then, the rift between the congress and the muslim league had become unbridgeable as each pointed the finger at the other acrimoniously. the muslim league disputed the claim of the congress to represent all people of india, while the congress disputed the muslim league's claim to voice the aspirations of all muslims.

revolutionary activities.







apart from a few stray incidents, the armed rebellion against the british rulers were not organized before the beginning of the 20th century. the revolutionary philosophies and movement made its presence felt during the 1905 partition of bengal. arguably, the initial steps to organize the revolutionaries were taken by aurobindo ghosh, his brother barin ghosh, bhupendranath datta etc. when they formed the jugantar party in april 1906.  jugantar was created as an inner circle of the anushilan samiti which was already present in bengal mainly as a revolutionary society in the guise of a fitness club.

the jugantar party leaders like barin ghosh and bagha jatin initiated making of explosives.  the alipore bomb case, following the muzaffarpur killing tried several activists and many were sentenced deportation for life, while khudiram bose was hanged. madan lal dhingra, a student in london, murdered sir curzon wylie, a british m.p. on 1 july 1909 in london.

the anushilan samiti and jugantar opened several branches throughout bengal and other parts of india and recruited young men and women to participate in the revolutionary activities. several murders and looting were done, with many revolutionaries being captured and imprisoned. during the first world war, the revolutionaries planned to import arms and ammunitions from germany and stage an armed revolution against the british.

the ghadar party operated from abroad and cooperated with the revolutionaries in india. this party was instrumental in helping revolutionaries inside india catch hold of foreign arms.

after the first world war, the revolutionary activities suffered major setbacks due to the arrest of prominent leaders.  in 1920s, the revolutionary activists started to reorganize.  hindustan socialist republican association was formed under the leadership of chandrasekhar azad. bhagat singh and batukeshwar dutt threw a bomb inside the central legislative assembly on 8 april 1929 protesting against the passage of the public safety bill and the trade disputes bill. following the trial (central assembly bomb case), bhagat singh, sukhdev and rajguru were hanged in 1931.

baikuntha shukla, an active revolutionary, was hanged for murdering phanindrananth ghosh who had become a government approver which led to hanging of bhagat singh, sukhdev and rajguru. baikuntha was a nephew of yogendra shukla aco-founder of the hindustan socialist republican association. initiated early into the freedom struggle at a young age, shukla had actively participated in the salt satyagraha of 1930 before becoming associated with more militant organisations like the hindustan seva dal and hindustan socialist republican association. 

phanindra nath ghosh, hitherto a key member of the revolutionary party, had turned an approver, giving evidence in the lahore conspiracy case trial. the subsequent execution bhagat singh,rajguru and sukhdev shook the entire country in 1931, and plans for vengeance were hatched.  baikunth was commissioned to plan the execution of ghosh as an act of ideological vendetta which he carried out successfully on 9th november 1932. he was arrested and tried for the killing. baikunth was convicted and hanged in gaya central jail on may 14th, 1934 at the age of 28 years.

surya sen, along with other activists, raided the chittagong armoury on 18 april 1930 to capture arms and ammunition and to destroy government communication system to establish a local governance.  pritilata waddedar led an attack on european club in chittagong in 1932, while bina das attempted to assassinate stanley jackson, the governor of bengal inside the convocation hall of calcutta university.  following the chittagong armoury raid case, surya sen was hanged and several other were deported for life to the cellular jail in andaman.

the bengal volunteers started operating in 1928. on 8 december 1930, the benoy-badal-dinesh trio of the party entered the secretariat writers' building in kolkata and murdered col ns simpson, the inspector general of prisons.

jai dayal yadav of nihalpura helped the revolutionary activities in the province of punjab (area which afterwards became haryana).jai dayal yadav was a staunch supporter of subhash chandra bose and helped many of the i.n.a. soldiers after the death of netaji, he went jail twice along with his followers.

on 13 march 1940, udham singh shot sir michael o'dwyer, generally held responsible for the amritsar massacre, in london. however, as the political scenario changed in the late 1930s   with the mainstream leaders considering several options offered by the british and the religious politics coming into play   the revolutionary activities gradually declined. many past revolutionaries joined mainstream politics by joining congress and other parties, especially communist ones, while many of the activists were kept under hold in different jails across the country.

elections and the lahore resolution.


the government of india act 1935, the voluminous and final constitutional effort at governing british india, articulated three major goals: establishing a loose federal structure, achieving provincial autonomy, and safeguarding minority interests through separate electorates. the federal provisions, intended to unite princely states and british india at the centre, were not implemented because of ambiguities in safeguarding the existing privileges of princes. in february 1937, however, provincial autonomy became a reality when elections were held; the congress emerged as the dominant party with a clear majority in five provinces and held an upper hand in two, while the muslim league performed poorly.

in 1939, the viceroy lord linlithgow declared india's entrance into world war ii without consulting provincial governments. in protest, the congress asked all of its elected representatives to resign from the government. jinnah, the president of the muslim league, persuaded participants at the annual muslim league session at lahore in 1940 to adopt what later came to be known as the lahore resolution, demanding the division of india into two separate sovereign states, one muslim, the other hindu; sometimes referred to as two nation theory. although the idea of pakistan had been introduced as early as 1930, very few had responded to it. however, the volatile political climate and hostilities between the hindus and muslims transformed the idea of pakistan into a stronger demand.

the climax: war, quit india, ina and post-war revolts.

indians throughout the country were divided over world war ii, as the lord linlithgow, without consulting the indian representatives had unilaterally declared india a belligerent on the side of the allies. in opposition to linlithgow's action, the entire congress leadership resigned from the local government councils. however, many wanted to support the british war effort, and indeed the british indian army was one of the largest volunteer force during the war. especially during the battle of britain, gandhi resisted calls for massive civil disobedience movements that came from within as well as outside his party, stating he did not seek india's freedom out of the ashes of a destroyed britain. however, like the changing fortunes of the war itself, the movement for freedom saw the rise of two movements that formed the climax of the 100-year struggle for independence. 

the first of these, the azad hind movement led by netaji subhash chandra bose, saw its inception early in the war and sought help from the axis powers. the second saw its inception in august 1942 led by gandhi and began following failure of the cripps' mission to reach a consensus with the indian political leadership over the transfer of power after the war.

the indian national army.





the arbitrary entry of india into the war was strongly opposed by subhash chandra bose, who had been elected president of the congress twice, in 1937 and 1939. after lobbying against participation in the war, he resigned from congress in 1939 and started a new party, the all india forward bloc. when war broke out, the raj had put him under house arrest in calcutta in 1940. however, at the time the war was at its bloodiest in europe and asia,   he escaped and made his way through afghanistan to germany to seek axis help to raise an army to fight the shackles of the raj. here, he raised with rommel's indian pows what came to be known as the free india legion. this came to be the conceptualisation in embryonic form of bose's dream of raising a liberation army to fight the raj. however, the turn of tides in the battlefields of europe saw bose make his way ultimately to japanese south asia where he formed what came to be known as the azad hind government as the provisional free indian government in exile, and organized the indian national army with indian pows and indian expatriates at south-east asia, with the help of the japanese. its aim was to reach india as a fighting force that would build on public resentment to inspire revolts among indian soldiers to defeat the raj. 

the ina was to see action against the allies, including the british indian army, in the forests of in arakan, burma and assam, laying siege on imphal and kohima with the japanese 15th army.  during the war, the andaman and nicobar islands were captured by the japanese and handed over by them to the ina; bose renamed them shahid (martyr) and swaraj (independence).

the ina would ultimately fail, owing to disrupted logistic, poor arms and supplies from the japanese, and lack of support and training. the ina's efforts ended with the surrender of japan in 1945. the existence of azad hind was essentially coterminous with the existence of the indian national army. while the government itself continued until the civil administration of the andaman islands was returned to the jurisdiction of the british towards the end of the war, the limited power of azad hind was effectively ended with the surrender of the last major contingent of ina troops in rangoon. the supposed death of bose is seen as culmination of the entire azad hind movement.

following the surrender of japan, the troops of the ina were brought to india and a number of them charged with treason. however, bose's  audacious actions and radical initiative had by this time captured the public imagination and also turned the inclination of the native soldiers of the british indian forces from one of loyalty to the crown to support for the soldiers that the raj deemed as collaborators. 

after the war, the stories of the azad hind movement and its army that came into public limelight during the trials of  soldiers of the ina in 1945 were seen as so inflammatory that, fearing mass revolts and uprisings   not just in india, but across its empire  , the british government forbid the bbc from broadcasting their story.  newspapers reported the summary execution of ina soldiers held at red fort. during and after the trial, mutinies broke out in the british indian armed forces, most notably in the  royal indian navy which found public support throughout india, from karachi to bombay and from vizag to calcutta.

many historians have  argued that it was the ina and the mutinies it inspired among the british indian armed forces that were the true driving force for india's independence.

quit india.

the quit india movement (bharat chhodo andolan) or the august movement was  a civil disobedience movement in india launched in august 1942 in response to gandhi's call for immediate independence of india. 

at the  outbreak of war, the congress party had during the wardha meeting of the working-committee in september 1939, passed a resolution conditionally supporting the fight against fascism, but were rebuffed when they asked for independence in return. in march 1942, faced with an increasingly dissatisfied sub-continent only reluctantly participating in the war, and deteriorations in the war situation in europe and south east asia, and with growing dissatisfactions among indian troops- especially in europe- and among the civilian population in the sub-continent, the british government sent a delegation to india under stafford cripps, in what came to be known as the cripp's mission. the purpose of the mission was to negotiate with the indian national congress a deal to obtain total co-operation during the war, in return of proggressive devolution and distribution of power from the crown and the viceroy to elected indian legislature. however, the talks failed, having failed to address the key demand of a timeframe towards self-government, and of definition of the powers to be relinquished, essentially portraying an offer of limited dominion-status that was wholly unacceptable to the indian movement. to force the raj to meet its demands and to obtain definitive word on total independence, the congress took the decision to launch the quit india movement.

the aim of the movement was to bring the british government to the negotiating table by holding the allied war effort hostage. the call for determined but passive resistance that signified the certitude that gandhi foresaw for the movement is best described by his call to do or die, issued on 8 august at the gowalia tank maidan in bombay, since re-named august kranti maidan (august revolution ground).  however, almost the entire congress leadership, and not merely at the national level, was put into confinement less than twenty-four hours after gandhi's speech, and the greater number of the congress leaders were to spend the rest of the war in jail.


on august 8 1942 the quit india resolution was passed at the bombay session of the all india congress committee (aicc). the draft proposed that if the british did not accede to the demands, a massive civil disobedience would be launched.  however, it was an extremely controversial decision.   at gowalia tank, mumbai gandhi urged indians to follow a non-violent civil disobedience. gandhi told the masses to act as an independent nation and not to follow the orders of the british. the british, already alarmed by the advance of the japanese army to the india burma border, responded the next day by imprisoning gandhi at the aga khan palace in pune. the congress party's working committee, or national leadership was arrested all together and imprisoned at the ahmednagar fort. they also banned the party altogether. large-scale protests and demonstrations were held all over the country.  workers remained absent en masse and strikes were called. the movement also saw widespread acts of sabotage, indian under-ground organisation carried out bomb attcks on allied supply convoys, government buildings were set on fire, electricity lines were disconnected and transport and communication lines were severed. the congress had lesser success in rallying other political forces, including the muslim league under a single mast and movement. it did however, obtain passive support from a substantial muslim population at the peak of the movement.

the british swiftly responded by mass detentions. a total over 100,000 arrests were made nationwide, mass fines were levied, bombs were airdropped and demonstrators were subjected to public flogging. 

the movement soon became a leaderless act of defiance, with a number of acts that deviated from gandhi's principle of non-violence. in large parts of the country, the local underground organisations took over the movement. however, by 1943, quit india had petered out.

rin mutiny.

 
the rin mutiny (also called the bombay mutiny) encompasses a total strike and subsequent mutiny by the indian sailors of the royal indian navy on board ship and shore establishments  at bombay (mumbai) harbour on 18 february 1946. from the initial flashpoint in bombay, the mutiny spread and found support through india, from karachi to  calcutta and ultimately came to involve 78 ships, 20 shore establishments and 20,000 sailors.

the rin mutiny  started as a strike by ratings of the royal indian navy on the 18th february in protest against general conditions.  the immediate issues of the mutiny were conditions and food, but there were more fundamental matters such as racist behaviour by british officers of the royal navy personnel towards indian sailors, and disciplinary measures being taken against anyone demonstrating pro-nationalist sympathies. the strike found immense support among the indian population already in grips with the stories of the indian national army. the actions of the mutineers were supported by demonstrations which included a one-day general strike in bombay. the strike spread to other cities, and was joined by the air force and local police forces.  naval officers and men began calling themselves the indian national navy and offered left handed salutes to british officers. at some places, ncos in the british indian army ignored and defied orders from british superiors. in madras and pune, the british garrisons had to face revolts within the ranks of the british indian army. widespread riotings took place from karachi to calcutta.  famously the ships hoisted three flags tied together   those of the congress, muslim league, and the red flag of the communist party of india (cpi), signifying the unity and demarginalisation of communal issues among the mutineers. 

the true judgment of contributions of each of these individual events and revolts to india s  eventual independence, and the relative success or failure of each, remains open to historians. some historians claim that the quit india movement was ultimately a failure and ascribe more to the destabilisation of the pillar of british power in india  - the british indian armed forces. certainly the british prime minister at the time of independence, clement atlee, deemed the contribution of quit india as minimal, ascribing stupendous importance to the revolts and growing dissatisfaction among royal indian armed forces as the driving force behind the raj s decision to leave india

an extract from a letter written by p.v. chuckraborty, former chief justice of calcutta high court, on march 30 1976, reads thus:

when i was acting as governor of west bengal in 1956, lord clement attlee, who as the british prime minister in post war years was responsible for india s freedom, visited india and stayed in raj bhavan calcutta for two days.  i put it straight to him like this:  the quit india movement of gandhi practically died out long before 1947 and there was nothing in the indian situation at that time which made it necessary for the british to leave india in a hurry. why then did they do so?  in reply attlee cited several reasons, the most important of which were the ina activities of netaji subhas chandra bose, which weakened the very foundation of the british empire in india, and the rin mutiny which made the british realise that the indian armed forces could no longer be trusted to prop up the british. when asked about the extent to which the british decision to quit india was influenced by mahatma gandhi s 1942 movement, attlee s lips widened in smile of disdain and he uttered, slowly,  minimal .
accessed on 17-jul-2006.  some indian historians however argue that, in fact, it was quit india that succeeded.  in support of the latter view, without doubt, the war had sapped a lot of the economic, political and military life-blood of the empire, and the powerful indian resistance had shattered the spirit and will of the british government.  however, such historians effectively ignore the contributions of the radical movements to transfer of power in 1947. regardless of whether it was the powerful common call for resistance among indians that shattered the spirit and will of the british raj to continue ruling india, or whether it was the ferment of rebellion and resentment among the british indian armed forces what is beyond doubt, is that a population of millions had been motivated as it never had been before to say ultimately that independence was a non-negotiable goal, and every act of defiance and rebel only stoked this fire.  in addition, the british people and the british army seemed unwilling to back a policy of repression in india and other parts of the empire even as their own country lay shattered by the war's ravages. 

the ina trials in 1945 (the red fort trial) and the bombay mutiny had already shaken the pillars of the raj in india.
by early 1946, all political prisoners had been released. british openly adopted a political dialogue with the indian national congress for the eventual independence of india.  on august 15, 1947, the transfer of power took place. 

a young, new generation responded to gandhi's call. indians who lived through  quit india came to form the first generation of independent indians   whose trials and tribulations may be accepted to have sown the seeds of establishment of the strongest enduring tradition of democracy and freedom in post-colonial africa and asia   which, when seen in the light of the torrid times of partition of india, can be termed one of the greatest examples of prudence of humankind.

independence, 1947 to 1950.



on 3 june 1947, viscount lord louis mountbatten, the last british governor-general of india, announced the partitioning of the british indian empire into a secular india and a muslim pakistan. at midnight, on 15 august 1947, india became an independent nation. violent clashes between hindus, muslims, and sikhs followed. prime minister nehru and deputy prime minister sardar vallabhbhai patel invited lord mountbatten to continue as governor general of india. he was replaced in june 1948 by chakravarti rajagopalachari.  patel took on the responsibility of unifying 565 princely states, steering efforts by his  iron fist in a velvet glove  policies, exemplified by the use of military force to integrate junagadh, jammu and kashmir, and hyderabad state into india. 

the constituent assembly completed the work of drafting the constitution on 26 november 1949; on 26 january 1950 the republic of india was officially proclaimed.  the constituent assembly elected dr. rajendra prasad as the first president of india, taking over from governor general rajgopalachari. subsequently, a free and sovereign india absorbed two other territories: goa (from portuguese control in 1961) and pondicherry (which the french ceded in 1953 1954).  in 1952, india held its first general elections, with a voter turnout exceeding 62%; this made it the world s largest democracy.

post independence significance of the movement.

it must be noted that regardless of the actual impact of the non-violent independence movements on the actual liberation of india, these movements have proven to be the bedrock of a free and self-ruled india. 


notes.


 references .


 library of congress;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 further reading .
majumdar, r. c. history of the freedom movement in india isbn 0-8364-2376-3;

external links.
 allama mashriqi;
 origin of non-violence;
 independence movement;
 mahatma gandhi;
 indian government;
 raja mahendapratap;
 timeline of indian independence movement;
 truth behind 1857 parts i,  ii & iii;














</doc>
<doc id="4509863" title="thomas gisborne the younger" nonfiltered="984" processed="970" dbindex="994">


thomas gisborne the younger (c. 1790   july 20 1852), son of thomas gisborne the elder, was a whg mp in the 1830s. he was father of henry fyshe gisborne.




</doc>
<doc id="3666569" title="eumeces blythianus" nonfiltered="985" processed="971" dbindex="995">


eumeces blythianus is a species of skink found in india and pakistan.
named after edward blyth (1810 - 1873), curator of the asiatic society of bengal.

external links.
 embl reptile database;

references.

 anderson,j. 1871 on two saurian genera eurylpis and plocederma blyth, with a description of a new species of mabouia fitzinger. p. asiat. soc. bengal 1871: 180-192;
 schmitz, andreas; patrick mausfeld and dirk embert 2004 molecular studies on the genus eumeces wiegmann, 1834: phylogenetic relationships and taxonomic implications. hamadryad 28 (1-2): 73 - 89;
 taylor, e. h. 1936 a taxonomic study of the cosmopolitan lizards of the genus eumeces with an account of the distribution and relationship of its species. univ. kansas sci. bull. 23 (14): 1-643 ;




</doc>
<doc id="4622717" title="chip peterson" nonfiltered="986" processed="972" dbindex="996">
chip peterson is a american swimmer who specializes is long-distance freestyle swimming, especially open water swimming, in which he is a world champion. 

at the 2005 world swimming championships, he won gold in the 10km event and a silver medal position behind germany's thomas lurz in the 5km event. he was jointly awarded the inaugural open water swimmer of the year by swimming world magazine with lurz. he also earned a gold medal in the 1500 meter freestyle at the 2005 summer nationals in irvine california. peterson is from pine knoll shores, nc and signed a letter of intent to swim for unc chapel hill beginning in fall 2006.  his father, pete, is a professor of marine sciences at unc.







</doc>
<doc id="5632765" title="captain cook bridge, new south wales" nonfiltered="987" processed="973" dbindex="997">



the captain cook bridge is one of three major road crossings of the georges river. it crosses at the mouth of the river into botany bay. captain cook bridge was opened in 1965.

the captain cook bridge carries three lanes of traffic in either direction and links rocky point road at sans souci in the st george area to taren point road at taren point in the sutherland shire. there are also two pedestrian walkways along either side of the bridge. loop walkways for pedestrians also run under the bridge at sans souci and taren point to provide easy access along the foreshore.

the other two crossings over the georges river are tom uglys bridge which opened in 1929 and alfords point bridge which opened in 1973. tom uglys bridge connects blakehurst to sylvania. alfords point bridge connects alfords point to padstow heights.

history.
the captain cook bridge is named after captain james cook who landed at nearby kurnell on 29 april 1770, when navigating his way around australia on his ship, the endeavour.



</doc>
<doc id="2604936" title="percy sands" nonfiltered="988" processed="974" dbindex="998">
percy robert sands (1881   1965) was an english footballer, who spent seventeen years playing for arsenal, making him one of the club's most enduring servants.

born in norwood, london, sands trained as a teacher, and joined woolwich arsenal (as they were then known) as an amateur in 1902. while still an amateur, he became the club's first-choice  centre half in 1903-04, having made his debut against blackpool on september 5, 1903. he would not turn fully professional for another three years, and would still work as a teacher when not playing.

woolwich arsenal were promoted to the first division in 1904, and sands was a near ever-present in the side. although arsenal were an undistinguished mid-table side at this time, they reached the fa cup semi-finals two years running, in 1905-06 and 1906-07. nicknamed "mr reliable", sands stuck with the club through leaner times, including financial difficulties and then relegation in 1912-13, by which time he had been made captain of the side, and the club's move to highbury (and its subsequent renaming) that same year.

with the advent of world war i, first-class football was suspended, but despite his age (33), sands continued to play for arsenal in unofficial wartime matches. he later left to serve in the royal army medical corps on the western front. after peace broke out, he joined southern league side southend united, before retiring. in all he played 350 matches for the gunners, a record that stood until it was broken by bob john fifteen years later.
 
he was never capped for england, although he was called up for trials with the squad, and also played for the football league representative xi. he died in december 1965 aged 84.

references.









</doc>
<doc id="7985367" title="top kwelity classics vol. 1" nonfiltered="989" processed="975" dbindex="999">
top kwelity classics is a mixtape by talib kweli featuring many of his early guest appearances.

track listing.




</doc>
<doc id="9320476" title="galileo industries" nonfiltered="990" processed="976" dbindex="1000">


galileo industries (gain) is a joint venture of the companies alcatel alenia space sas (france), alacatel alenia space spa (italy), eads astrium gmbh (germany), eads astrium ltd (england), galileo sistemas y servicios (a consortium of 7 spanic companies) and thales (france). the company vision is, as main custruction company for the navigation system galileo to develop and build satellites as well as components for the ground segment infrastructure of the galileo system. the partner firms have committed not to construct comepting products for galileo.

gain headquarters is at ottobrunn near munic and has a branch in rome. gain employs about 200 people, partly working directly for their parent corporations.

external links.
homepage;





</doc>
<doc id="2365582" title="sangm\e9lima" nonfiltered="991" processed="977" dbindex="1001">

sangm\e9lima is a town on the lobo river, and also the chief town of lobo division ('dja et lobo'), in the south province ('province du sud'), republic of cameroon, africa. the language spoken there is french, with bulu being the second language.

people.

the population is of the bulu clan, part of the beti-pahuin tribe. the bulu migrated to the area during the 19th century, having been slave hunters until the british sent elements of the royal navy in 1827 to the coastal areas in bid to stop the slave trade. cameroon's president paul biya is a bulu, from a village near sangm\e9lima.

economy.

the economy is rural, with large chicken farms notable.

transport.

the national road 9 passes through the town, and national road 17 begins there. there is an airstrip near the town.

ecology.

the dja faunal reserve ('r\e9serve du biosph\e8re du dja') is a 5,260 km\b2 reserve that extends to the east of the town, and which was designated a world heritage site in 1984. unesco calls it: "one of the largest and best-protected rainforests in africa, with 90% of its area left undisturbed". there are also said to be "vast forested areas" to the south of the town.









</doc>
<doc id="170927" title="pertussis" nonfiltered="992" processed="978" dbindex="1002">


pertussis, also known as whooping cough, is a highly contagious disease caused by the bacterium bordetella pertussis; a similar, milder disease is caused by b. parapertussis. worldwide, there are 30 50 million pertussis cases and about 300,000 deaths per year (world health organization data). despite generally high coverage with dtp and dtap, pertussis is one of the leading causes of vaccine-preventable deaths world-wide.  most deaths occur in young infants who are either unvaccinated or incompletely vaccinated; three doses of dtp is necessary for protection against pertussis.  ninety percent of all cases occur in third world countries. however, in the winter of 2006, a new york school district  suffered a large pertussis outbreak with thirteen plus students falling victim to the infection.  also in the fall of 2006, a pertussis outbreak struck new trier high school, a public school in winnetka, with twenty four high school students catching the disease. in response, the cook county department of public health provided vaccine, free of charge, to eligible students. 

pertussis was recognizably described as early as 1578 by guillaume de baillou (1538-1616), but earlier reports date back at least to the 12th century.. b. pertussis was isolated in pure culture in 1906 by jules bordet and octave gengou, who also developed the first serology and vaccine. the complete b. pertussis genome of 4,086,186 base pairs was sequenced in 2002.

characterization.
after a 7 to 10 day incubation period, pertussis in infants and young children is characterized initially by mild respiratory infection symptoms such as cough, sneezing, and runny nose (catarrhal stage). after one to two weeks, the cough changes character, with paroxysms of coughing followed by an inspiratory "whooping" sound (paroxysmal stage). coughing fits may be followed by vomiting due to the sheer violence of the fit.  in severe cases, the vomiting induced by coughing fits can lead to malnutrition. the fits that do occur on their own can also be triggered by yawning, stretching, laughing, or yelling. coughing fits gradually diminish over one to two months during the (convalescent stage). other complications of the disease include pneumonia, encephalitis, pulmonary hypertension, and secondary bacterial superinfection.

because neither vaccination nor infection confers long-term immunity, infection of adolescents and adults is also common   most adults and adolescents who become infected with bordetella pertussis have been vaccinated or infected years previously.  when there is residual immunity from previous infection or immunization, symptoms may be milder, such as a prolonged cough without the other classic symptoms of pertussis.  nevertheless, infected adults and adolescents can transmit the bacteria to susceptible individuals.  adults and adolescent family members are the major source of transmission of the bacteria to unimmunized or partially immunized infants, who are at greatest risk of severe complications from pertussis.

transmission and diagnosis.

pertussis is spread by contact with airborne discharges from the mucous membranes of infected people, who are most contagious during the catarrhal stage. because the symptoms during the catarrhal stage are nonspecific, pertussis is usually not diagnosed until the appearance of the characteristic cough of the paroxysmal stage.  methods used in laboratory diagnosis include culturing of nasopharyngeal swabs on bordet-gengou medium, polymerase chain reaction (pcr), immunofluorescence (dfa), and serological methods.  the bacteria can be recovered from the patient only during the first three weeks of illness, rendering culturing, pcr, and dfa useless after this period.  for most adults and adolescents, who often do not seek medical care until several weeks into their illness, serology is often used to determine whether antibody against pertussis toxin or another component of b. pertussis is present at high levels in the blood of the patient.

treatment.
treatment with an effective antibiotic shortens the infectious period but does not generally alter the outcome of the disease; however, when treatment is initiated during the catarrhal stage, symptoms may be less severe. three macrolides, erythromycin, azithromycin and clarithromycin are used in the u.s. for treatment of pertussis; trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is generally used when a macrolide is ineffective or is contraindicated.  close contacts who receive appropriate antibiotics (chemoprophylaxis) during the 7 21 day incubation period may be protected from developing symptomatic disease.  close contacts are defined as anyone coming into contact with the respiratory secretions of an infected person in the 21 days before or after the infected person's cough began.

vaccines.
history of pertussis vaccine development.
efforts to develop an inactivated whole-cell pertussis vaccine began soon after b. pertussis was grown in pure culture in 1906.  in 1925, the danish physician thorvald madsen was the first to test a whole-cell pertussis vaccine on a wide scale.  he used the vaccine to control outbreaks in the faroe islands in the north sea.  in 1942, the american scientist pearl kendrick combined the whole-cell pertussis vaccine with diphtheria and tetanus toxoids to generate the first dtp combination vaccine.  to minimize the frequent side effects caused by the pertussis component of the vaccine, the japanese scientist yugi sato developed an acellular pertussis vaccine consisting of filamentous hemagglutinin (fha) and pertussis toxin (pt), which are secreted by b. pertussis into the culture medium.  sato's acellular pertussis vaccine was used in japan beginning in 1981.  later versions of the acellular pertussis vaccine used in other countries consisted of additional defined components of b. pertussis and were often part of the dtap combination vaccine.

current status of pertussis vaccines.
pertussis vaccines are highly effective.  however, they offer protection for only a few years, and are given so that immunity lasts through childhood, the time of greatest exposure and greatest risk. the immunizations are given in combination with tetanus and diphtheria immunizations, at ages 2, 4, and 6 months, and later at 15 18 months and 4 6 years.  the short term effectiveness of the vaccines and the presence of b. pertussis infection in adults and adolescents who may transmit the bacteria to infants have caused many in the medical field to call for booster immunizations at later ages.  canada, france, and germany now have booster shots available for adolescents.

traditionally, pertussis vaccines are not given after age seven, as the frequency of side effects associated with the immunization tends to increase with age.  the most serious side-effects of immunization are neurological: they include seizures and hypotonic episodes. however, some countries now give adolescents a booster shot to maintain their immunity. the acellular vaccine, known as dtap, has greatly reduced the incidence of adverse effects. an acellular vaccine preparation for older individuals is available in canada, europe, and the united states. the food and drug administration has approved the use of the vaccines boostrix (glaxosmithkline) for 10-18 year olds on may 2005 and adacel (sanofi pasteur) for 11-64 year olds in august 2005.  however, they are  not recommended for those who had an adverse reaction to the older vaccines.

whole-cell pertussis vaccine controversy.
much of the controversy surrounding the dtp vaccine in the 1970s and 1980s related to the question of whether the whole-cell pertussis component caused permanent brain injury in rare cases.  although it was well-established that the pertussis component of the dtp vaccine accounted for most of the minor local and systemic side effects in many vaccinated infants, several published studies failed to show a causal relationship between administration of the dtp vaccine and permanent brain injury.  however, criticism of these studies and well-publicized anecdotal reports of dtp-induced permanent disability and death gave rise to anti-dtp movements.

by the late 1970s, publicity about adverse reactions and deaths following pertussis vaccination caused the immunization rate to fall in several countries, including great britain, sweden, and japan.  in many cases, a dramatic increase in the incidence of pertussis followed.  these developments led yugi sato to introduce a safer acellular version of the pertussis vaccine for japan in 1981.  nevertheless, other countries continued to use the whole-cell dtp formulation.

in the united states, low profit margins and an increase in vaccine-related lawsuits led many manufacturers to stop producing the dtp vaccine by the early 1980s. in 1982, the television documentary "dtp: vaccine roulette" depicted the lives of children whose severe disabilities were blamed on the dtp vaccine.  the negative publicity generated by the documentary led to a tremendous increase in the number of lawsuits filed against vaccine manufacturers.  by 1985, manufacturers of vaccines had difficulty obtaining liability insurance.  the price of the dtp vaccine skyrocketed, leading to shortages around the country.  only one manufacturer of the dpt vaccine remained in the u.s. by the end of 1985.  to avert a vaccine crisis, congress in 1986 passed the national childhood vaccine injury act (ncvia), which established a federal no-fault system to compensate victims of injury caused by mandated vaccines.  since then, the prices of vaccines have stabilized, and the number of lawsuits filed against dtp manufacturers have dwindled.  the majority of claims that have been filed through the ncvia have been related to injuries allegedly caused by the whole-cell dtp vaccine.  the acellular pertussis vaccine was approved in the united states in 1992 for use in the combination dtap vaccine. research has shown the acellular vaccine to be safe, with few reports of adverse effects. although the whole-cell dtp vaccine is no longer used in the united states, it is still purchased by the world health organization and distributed to developing nations because of its much reduced cost compared to the acellular dtap vaccine.

references.

external links.
pertussis at todar's online textbook of bacteriology;
nearly 3 dozen whooping cough cases reported: 35 students come down with pertussis in montgomery county;

























</doc>
<doc id="2678380" title="dictionary of chemical formulas/merge/c17" nonfiltered="993" processed="979" dbindex="1003">
c17.




</doc>
<doc id="2955539" title="gotthard (band)" nonfiltered="994" processed="980" dbindex="1004">
gotthard is a swiss hard rock band founded by steve lee and leo leoni. their last ten albums have all charted at number one, making them the most successful swiss album chart act ever.

with 2 millions of albums sold (1m of which was sold in switzerland, which only has 7 million inhabitants), they managed to get multi-platinum awards in different parts of the world., it is the nationally most successful rock band   if international sales are considered, they are still trailing krokus.

discography.
studio albums and singles.
 gotthard (1992);
 dial hard (1994);
 g. (1996);
 open (1999);
 homerun (2001);
 human zoo (2003);
 lipservice (2005);

live albums.
 the hamburg tapes (1996);
 d frosted (1997);
 made in switzerland (live album) (2006);

compilation albums.
 one life one soul (best of ballads) (2002);
 one team one spirit (best of album) (2004);

members.
steve lee - vocals;
leo leoni - guitars;
freddy scherer - guitars;
marc lynn - bass guitar;
hena habegger - drums;

influences.
influences include led zeppelin, ac/dc, whitesnake, deep purple and aerosmith. singer steve lee is especially fond of whitesnake and has based his singing style on their lead singer david coverdale.

gotthard also performed "immigrant song" (originally by led zeppelin) live and it featured exclusively on a cd by classic rock (a long running monthly uk rock magazine). "hush" was also performed live and can be found on made in switzerland album.

they have also covered songs from bob dylan, the hollies and the move.

external link.
official website;
heavy harmonies page;









</doc>
<doc id="144589" title="information warfare" nonfiltered="995" processed="981" dbindex="1005">


information warfare is the use and management of information in pursuit of a competitive advantage over an opponent.  information warfare may involve collection of tactical information, assurance that one's own information is valid, spreading of propaganda or disinformation among the enemy, undermining the quality of opposing force information and denial of information collection opportunities to opposing forces.

overview.
information warfare can take many forms:
 television and radio transmission can be jammed.
 television and radio transmission can be hijacked for a disinformation campaign;
 logistics networks can be disabled.
 stock exchanges transactions can be sabotaged  either with electronic intervention, leaking sensitive information or placing disinformation.

during the 1991 gulf war, dutch crackers stole information about u.s. troop movements from u.s. defense department computers and tried to sell it to the iraqis, who thought it was a hoax and turned it down . in january 1999, u.s. air intelligence computers were hit by a coordinated attack, part of which appeared to come from russian cracking .

origins.
information about own forces, allied forces and opposing forces has always been a key feature of military operations, discussed in sun tzu's the art of war:

if you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.  if you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.  if you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.


nations, corporations, and individuals each seek to increase, protect and exploit their own information while trying to limit and penetrate the adversary's.  methods to collect, store, analyse and exploit information cover the whole range of both military and commercial activities and whilst this discussion is related to the military application of the discipline these methods legitimately apply in the commercial environment.

since the 1960s, there have been extraordinary improvements in the technical means of transmission, protection, collection, storage and analysis which have allowed significant improvements in the exploitation of the information domain.

information operations.

information operations (info ops) is an evolving discipline within the military.  it has emerged from earlier concepts such as "command & control warfare" and "information warfare" - mainly us dominated, originating in the 1990s and considering lessons learned from the gulf war(s), phenomena like the so-called "cnn effect", and the enormous advance in information technology.  

today germany leads a multinational effort on developing info ops as an integrating function / joint mission area within the military, called the "multinational information operations experiment" (mnioe). the current 20 mnioe partners define info ops as "the advice to and co-ordination of military activities affecting information and information systems   including system behaviour and capabilities   in order to create desired effects." this definition - and its related context - differs from extant national views (e.g., the usa or gbr) and provides an advanced approach to multinational and interagency information activities in support of crisis management and effects-based operations.

designing and implementing guidance for coalition actions to affect information and information systems (information activities) is a challenge; it applies to the whole scope of civil-military efforts from pre-crisis situations to post-conflict reconstruction, and spans all levels of involvement.

ongoing initiatives for info ops concept development and experimentation (cd&e) are derived from the following problem statement:

joint and combined warfighters lack integrated processes and organisation to plan, execute and assess effects-based information activities  in a multinational and interagency context based on a comprehensive and systemic understanding of the operational environment using all available and appropriate means.  in particular:
 commanders and their staff lack the means, methods and training to gain and maintain appropriate situational awareness and understanding of the information environment;
 commanders are often unaware of the scope and scale of options to affect information and/or information systems;
 relevant co-ordination processes are not institutionalised, but rather depend on the personality of actors, occur by chance and/or erratically;
 extant organisational structures often limit the flexibility of the force to adapt to mission and situation requirements;
 commanders often do not realise the full scope of opportunities as well as risk associated with mainstream military actions and their potential to create effects on information and information systems;
 military plans and operations are often inadequately integrated with civil information activities; the overall consistency of comprehensive coalition efforts needs to be improved in this respect.

the mnioe project will develop solutions to answer the following questions (cd&e issues):
 how do we describe the characteristics of the information environment to support focused systemic analysis? ;
 what means, methods and training do we need to gain a comprehensive and systemic understanding of the information environment? ;
 how do we incorporate comprehensive, clear, and achievable guidance for coalition information activities (coalition information strategy) in the multinational interagency strategic planning process?
 how do we translate and implement the coalition information strategy for coordinated civil and military action at the operational level of command? ;
 how can we identify, rate, and exploit the full spectrum of effects in the information environment and military information activities within a comprehensive approach?
 how do we appropriately consider the opportunities and risks associated with effects in the information environment and mainstream military and civil actions? ;
 how do we design and implement efficient and effective advice and co-ordination for planning, execution and assessment of military information activities?
 how do we coordinate effects and activities related to the information environment amongst military and civil actors within a comprehensive approach?
 how do we share information to enable efficient and effective multinational interagency planning for coalition information activities?
 how do we share information to enable efficient and effective execution and assessment of military and civil information activities?

see also.
 information operations roadmap;
 communications security;
 command and control warfare;
 gatekeeper (politics) left gatekeepers;
 disinformation;
 black propaganda;
 network-centric warfare;

references.

science at war: information warfare, the history channel;
arquilla, j. & rondfeldt, d. in athena's camp, rand 1997;
arquilla, j. & rondfeldt, d. networks and netwars, rand 2001;
winn schwartau, ed, information warfare: cyberterrorism: protecting your personal security in the electronic age, thunder's mouth press, 2nd ed, 1996, isbn 1-56025-132-8;
james adams, the next world war: computers are the weapons  and the front line is everywhere, simon and schuster, 1998, isbn 0-684-83452-9;
edward waltz, information warfare principles and operations, artech house, 1998, isbn 0-89006-511-x;

external links.
resources.

 - information warfare;
 iws - the information warfare site;
 the information warfare monitor;
 information warfare, i-war, iw, c4i, cyberwar;
 federation of american scientists - iw resources;
 association of old crows  http://www.myaoc.org  the electronic warfare and information operations association;
 c4i.org - computer security & intelligence;
 culture's impact in information warfare;
 cosc 511 information warfare: terrorism, crime, and national security @ department of computer science, georgetown university;
 cse 468 - information conflict @ monash uni;
 information warfare, information operations and electronic attack capabilities @ apa;

key papers.
 information warfare basics, fred cohen 2006;
 what is information warfare? col andrew borden, usaf (ret.) @ aerospace power chronicles;
 a fundamental paradigm of infowar,  february, 2000,  dr carlo kopp;
 united states. dept of the air force. cornerstones of information warfare. washington, 1995.;
 a mathematical theory of communication by claude e. shannon, 1948.;
 borden-kopp model, research & theory links, cyberspace and information operations study center, air war college, air university;

news item.
 "america's war on the web", the sunday herald, 2 april 2006: article on information warfare escalation and the information operations roadmap commissioned by donald rumsfeld;

united states department of defense io doctrine.

 information operations roadmap (dod 2003);
 information operations (jp 3-13 2006);
 operations security (jp 3-13.3);
 military deception (jp 3-13.4);
 joint doctrine for psyops (jp 3-53 2003);
 joint doctrine for public affairs (jp 3-61 2005);

counterterrorism.
 destabilizing terrorist networks: disrupting and manipulating information flows in the global war on terrorism;
 seeking symmetry in fourth generation warfare: information operations in the war of ideas;












</doc>
<doc id="119406" title="pine point township, minnesota" nonfiltered="996" processed="982" dbindex="1006">
pine point township is a township in becker county, minnesota, united states. the population was 419 at the 2000 census.

geography.
according to the united states census bureau, the township has a total area of 92.8 km\b2 (35.8 mi\b2).  89.2 km\b2 (34.4 mi\b2) of it is land and 3.7 km\b2 (1.4 mi\b2) of it (3.93%) is water.

demographics.
as of the census2 of 2000, there were 419 people, 132 households, and 111 families residing in the township.  the population density was 4.7/km\b2 (12.2/mi\b2).  there were 145 housing units at an average density of 1.6/km\b2 (4.2/mi\b2).  the racial makeup of the township was 23.63% white, 73.75% native american, and 2.63% from two or more races. hispanic or latino of any race were 0.24% of the population.

there were 132 households out of which 50.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 32.6% were married couples living together, 39.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 15.9% were non-families. 12.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 3.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  the average household size was 3.17 and the average family size was 3.27.

in the township the population was spread out with 42.2% under the age of 18, 7.4% from 18 to 24, 25.5% from 25 to 44, 16.0% from 45 to 64, and 8.8% who were 65 years of age or older.  the median age was 25 years. for every 100 females there were 105.4 males.  for every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 90.6 males.

the median income for a household in the township was $21,250, and the median income for a family was $21,250. males had a median income of $30,938 versus $28,036 for females. the per capita income for the township was $9,210.  about 33.7% of families and 35.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 44.3% of those under age 18 and 33.3% of those age 65 or over.






</doc>
<doc id="3783867" title="profane existence discography" nonfiltered="997" processed="983" dbindex="1007">
this is an overview of the profane existence discography (current as of 3/31/06).

001 sofa head - 1127 walnut ave. 7"
001.5 doom - police bastard 7"
002 nausea - extinction lp
003 sofa head - invitation to dinner 7"
004 va - nightmares of reality 2xlp
005 atavistic - vanishing point lp
006 moral suckling - reach lp
007 asbestosdeath - dejection 7"
008 hiatus - way of doom 7"
009 pissed - s/t 7"
010 internal autonomy - only you have the power 2x7"
011 deprived / resist - fuck all governments 7"
012 natural cause - mess 7"
013 va - think globally, act locally 2x7"
014 va - in the spirit of total resistance 2x7"
015 negative stance - spectators of decadence 7"
016 resist - ignorance is bliss lp
017 misery - who's the fool... the fool is silent cd
018 diskonto - shattered society 7"
019 state of the union - rez-erection 7"
020 christdriver - blind 7"
021 dead silence - hell, how could we make any more money than this? 7"
022 assrash - save for your doomed future 7"
023 state of fear - wallow in squalor 7"
024 doom - fuck peaceville 2xlp/cd
025 publice nuisance - cheap sex 'n' booze 7"
026 suicidal supermarket trolleys - shut up and drink lp
027 coprofilia - latinamerica: the uniting struggle against power 7"
031 counterblast - balance of pain cassette
032 christdriver - everything burns lp/cd
033 assrash - up the punx lp
034 civil disobedience - invention / extinction lp
035 disagree / ungovernmental - split 7"
036 misery - next time / midnight 7"
038 children of barren wasteland - s/t 7"
039 state of fear - the tables will turn... and it's you who is going to suffer lp
042 defiance - no time 7"
044 servitude - apparatus 7"
045 state of the union - s/t lp
047 manual seven - the shattering 7"
048 react - disturbing the souls of buried rage 7"
049 detestation - s/t cd
053 brother inferior / whorehouse of representatives - split 7"
056 detestation - blood of the gods 7"
057 decrepit - tired of licking blood from a spoon lp
058 a//political - punk is a ghetto 7"
059 phobia / resist and exist - split lp
060 provoked - infant in the womb of warfare lp/cd
061 another oppressive system / human waste - split 7"
062 disrespect - s/t 7"
063 garmonbozia - s/t lp/cd
064 iskra - s/t lp
065 extinction of mankind - the nightmare seconds... lp
066 witch hunt - ...as priorities decay lp/cd
067 state of fear - discography lp/cd
068 witch hunt - eps & crucial chaos radio session cd
069 disrespect - justice in a bag 7"
070 saint bushmill's choir - s/t lp
071 behind enemy lines - know your enemy lp/cd
072 misery - next time / who's the fool... cd
073 ballast - sound asleep lp/cd
074 disrespect - 2004 recordings cd
075 the cooters - punk metal cd
076 provoked - prepare for the cold lp/cd
077 hellshock - warlord 7"/cd
078 another oppressive system - 2000-2004: the first four years cd
079 disrespect - wartorn 7"
080 disrespect - we are the punx 7"
081 the cooters - chaos or bust cd
081.5 the cooters - bustin loose 7"
082 cop on fire / visions of war split lp
083 imperial leather - something out of nothing cd/lp
084 thought crime - its all in your head lp
085 kakistocracy lp
086 migra violenta - holocausto capitalista lp
087 murder disco experience - ground zero: stuttgart cd/lp

see also.
 profane existence;


</doc>
<doc id="2338180" title="constantia (typeface)" nonfiltered="998" processed="984" dbindex="1008">

constantia is part of the new suite of typefaces that come with microsoft windows vista. it is a serif font designed for readability both online and in print.

external links.
 ;
 microsoft design | cleartype;






</doc>
<doc id="6929061" title="m?s?rl? ahmet" nonfiltered="999" processed="985" dbindex="1009">


m s rl  ahmet (born ahmet y ld r m, 1967 in ankara, turkey) is a turkish virtuoso darbuka player. his music spans various genres and carries influences from indian, arabic, latin american and jazz music.

ahmet y ld r m started his music life playing a turkish-style darbuka. he states that he was a fairly ordinary player before his travel to egypt, to play with and learn from some of the best darbuka players; most of all "to find the meaning of his existence" and "to discover the rhythm". y ld r m lived in the desert-bound valley of cairo, during which he developed his unique technique, now known as the split-finger technique, which allows for very quick playing.

y ld r m came to be known as "m s rl  ahmet" (ahmet of egypt) after his journey. he is called "ahmed el turk\ee" (turkish ahmet) in egypt.

solo albums.
 great masters of mediterrenean / natural moments (2005);
 the search (2001);
 mel de cabra (2000);
 oriental dance and percussion (1993);

featured albums.
 the dzihan & kamien orchestra / "live in vienna" (2004);

quotes.
 you have to lose the rhythm first in order to discover it.

 i found myself in darbuka. i may be the best darbuka player, but it's not enough, i want to be darbuka!

 i became obsessed with egyptian musicians, listening to their cds, i thought "these guys are out of this world! what do i have to tell them?" i started with saying "there should be something you can tell", and created a new technique. this is a milestone in darbuka. i heard very interesting tones in the desert. you can hear your own heartbeat there. after the 90s, there was nothing more to inspire me on darbuka so i took up doholle (bass darbuka). i too am surprised with the sounds coming out of the doholle; i think "god, do i have enough time? will i be able to wrap this up?". life is too short, i don't have any time. my biggest ideal is to perform a great solo before i die, like "he played so great just two hours ago, and now he's dead. here's the instrument, it's not even dried yet.";

 (in response to the question, "do you practise 3 hours a day?") yeah, that should be enough for warming up.

references.
milliyet pazar, 14/12/05;
akmuzik.com.tr;








</doc>
<doc id="6621788" title="stade municipal de bamendzi" nonfiltered="1000" processed="986" dbindex="1010">
stade municipal de bamendzi is a multi-use stadium in bafoussam, cameroon.  it is currently used mostly for football matches. it serves as a home ground of racing fc bafoussam. the stadium holds 5,000 people.





</doc>
<doc id="1178784" title="whangamata" nonfiltered="1001" processed="987" dbindex="1011">
the town of whangamata is sited on the southeast coast of the coromandel peninsula in the north island of new zealand. it is located 30 kilometres north of waihi, to the north of the western extremity of the bay of plenty. the second largest town on the peninsula (after thames), it has a population of 5000. in holiday times the population swells considerably: new year's celebrations fill the town to over 40,000 though this falls soon after new year's day.

the beach itself is graced with a number of off-shore islands. hauturu or clark island is accessible by wading at low tide and is popular in summer months for rock-pool fossickers and kayakers. whenuakura, sometimes known as donut island, sits about a kilometer east of the southern part of whangamata beach (otahu beach). tuatara roamed on whenuakura until fairly recently. whenuakura island has a large collapsed blow hole which has formed a small beach inside the island - hence the alternative name.

the town has two ocean beaches, both of which are extremely safe for swimming and surfing.   there is a safe boating harbour at the north end of the town and another estuary at the south end.  both the harbour and estuary provide good swimming for families. 15 minutes drive south of whangamata is the quietly popular beach whiritoa. other beaches just north of whangamata are onemana (about 15 minutes) and opoutere (15 minutes).

there is a number of clubs, restaurants and hotels, which are able to provide meals, refreshments and entertainment for visitors.

shibboleth: people aware of other place names of m ori origin might expect whangamata to be pronounced in a similar way to such names as waitemata and matamata, where more stress is placed on the penultimate syllable than the final one, leaving the last 'a' as a schwa. these place names rhyme, roughly, with the english word matter. whangamata goes against this rule, and the stress is placed firmly on the final 'a'. the ending thus rhymes (roughly) with the english word guitar.

the name of whangamata comes from the mata stones (obsidian) which washed up on the beach. whanga = bay, mata = a hard stone.
references.

     









</doc>
<doc id="7180863" title="armand rassenfosse" nonfiltered="1002" processed="988" dbindex="1012">
 
armand rassenfosse (6 august 1862 - 28 january 1934) was a belgian painter and lithographer, born in li\e8ge.



</doc>
<doc id="4392048" title="exit only" nonfiltered="1003" processed="989" dbindex="1013">
exit only is a novel by liam bracken published in 2004 by enc press. 

set in saudi arabia in a pre-9/11 world, the novel follows the lives of expatriates in the airline industry. 

from the enc press website:

after twenty years of fixing boeing aircraft alongside saudi mechanics, charlie durango reckons he understands the saudi mentality in jeddah pretty well. in fact, so confident is durango in his perceptions that for a few thousand bucks he helps khalid ba sallah, a saudi colleague, conceal two kilos of cocaine on a new york-bound 747. unfortunately, anti-american remarks khalid has made haunt charlie and prompt him to try and glean whether or not he has put on board the airliner something more sinister than coke.

sara santos stares into saudi arabia from another angle. her eyes gaze down the shaft of a mop handle at life in a middle-class saudi family. a maid from the philippines, sara has been languishing, trapped and abused, in a jeddah household for the last twelve years, with no prospect of escaping until now. sara has just palmed a u.s. passport, and she is using her final threads of will to alter it and flee saudi arabia on a new york bound flight   the flight aboard which charlie has, hopefully, hidden only cocaine. 

charlie, sara, and other central characters of exit only represent but a few people among a myriad of personalities on jeddah s  arab street.  pakistani taxi drivers, egyptian clerks, saudi youths male and female, western pilots and flight attendants, government workers, british charlatans, hash-smoking esl instructors, and many others toil there, too. collectively, their personal development defines contemporary saudi arabia and powers the plot and themes of this pre-september 11 novel.

allegorical by nature and evolvement, satiric and cynical by characterization, and rapid by pacing, exit only is more than a suspense novel set in locale of current interest. it s a blistering quest and climax on the red sea shores.

external links.
exit only enc press web page;



</doc>
<doc id="431670" title="pok\e9mon card gb2" nonfiltered="1004" processed="990" dbindex="1014">


pok\e9mon card gb2 was the second videogame based off of the popular pok\e9mon trading card game. it was only released in japan and was a sequel to the first game and was released for the game boy color (although it could be played on a non-colored game boy system). it featured characters from the first game, as well as a second island to travel to that expanded on the first game, with a focus on the team rocket expansion.  the game was never released outside of japan. there are no plans of ever doing so, but if there are, then it will probably be rewritten for the nintendo ds.

this game contains every japanese card that had been released up to the team rocket set, including some japan-only promotional cards.









</doc>
<doc id="577904" title="derlei" nonfiltered="1005" processed="991" dbindex="1015">


vanderlei fernandes silva, simply known as derlei (born july 14, 1975 in s\e3o bernardo do campo, brazil) is a brazilian-portuguese football (soccer) player. he currently plays for portuguese team sport lisboa e benfica, on loan from dynamo moscow until june 2007.

he started playing football in the lower levels of football in brazil but soon joined u.d. leiria reserves but after a succesfull trail he made the first team playing 91 games and socering 42 goals.

derlei joined fc porto in the summer of 2002 from ud leiria. he was a big part of futebol clube do porto's hugely successeful jos\e9 mourinho's squad, since he was one of its top scorers. he scored twice for porto in the 2003 uefa cup final. in january 2005, after disciplinary problems related to his lateness in arriving from the winter break, subsequently he was sold to dynamo moscow for 7 million euros. he recently adopted portuguese citizenship.

after two years of russian football where he was always one of the top five best goalscorers he left for benfica, a rival of the south of former club fc porto, many claim that he was against fc porto's president pinto da costa and joined rivals benfica where he is now seen as a traitor a similar feat of former benfica player now porto player tomislav \a6okota.

derlei was nicknamed ninja at futebol clube do porto for his indomitable will to win and full committement to the club.

on february 2, 2007 he played his first superliga match for benfica against boavista f.c.  

 playing career .

2006              dinamo moscow (17/7) 
2005              dinamo moscow (23/13) 
2004-05		porto		(13/0)	
2003-04		porto		(18/13)	
2002-03		porto		(26/7)
2001-02		uniao leiria		(33/21)	
2000-01		uniao leiria		(32/13)	
1999-00		uniao leiria		(26/8)	
1998-99		madureira			
1998-98		guarani			
1997-97		guarani			
1996-96		america (rn)		

references.





external links.
derlei soars to benfica;

















</doc>
<doc id="9080502" title="thomas m. bayly" nonfiltered="1006" processed="992" dbindex="1016">
this article is about the virginia congressman. for the maryland congressman, see thomas bayly.;
for his son, see thomas h. bayly.;
thomas monteagle bayly (march 26, 1775   january 7, 1834) was an eighteenth and nineteenth century politician, lawyer and planter from virginia. he was the father of thomas henry bayly.

born on hills farm near drummondtown, virginia, bayly attended washington academy in maryland as a young man. he went on to graduate from princeton college in new jersey in 1794, had studied law and was admitted to the bar around 1796 commencing practice in accomac county, virginia. bayly also engaged in planting. he became a member of the virginia house of delegates in 1798, serving until 1801 when he left to join the virginia state senate, serving their until 1809. during the war of 1812, bayly served as colonel of militia. after the war, he was elected a federalist to the united states house of representatives, serving their from 1813 to 1815. bayly was not a candidate for reelection in 1814 and instead resumed engaging in agricultural pursuits and practicing law. he returned to the house of delegates in 1819, 1820 and from 1828 to 1831 and was a delegate to the virginia constitutional convention in 1829 and 1830. bayly died at his plantation called "mount custis" in accomac, virginia on january 7, 1834 and was interned in the family cemetery on the estate.

external links.


















</doc>
<doc id="2279851" title="david parer" nonfiltered="1007" processed="993" dbindex="1017">
david parer is an award-winning australian natural history film maker. 

parer was conscripted into the royal australian army to go to the vietnam war in 1970, but he entered a masters program to study physics in the antarctic. parer spent the summers of 1970 and 1972 in antarctica studying cosmic rays. while there he filmed his first documentary. he met his wife and fellow film maker, elizabeth parer-cook, in 1977.

he has been awarded the afi award for the best cinematography for a non-feature film 4 times for 
edge of the cold, 1978;
bird of the thunder woman, 1980;
dragons of galapagos, 1998;
island of the vampire birds, 1999;

his uncle was the renowned academy award winning war cinematographer, damien parer, who filmed kokoda front line.

reference.
george negus tonight interview transcript;



</doc>
<doc id="937381" title="jimboomba, queensland" nonfiltered="1008" processed="994" dbindex="1018">
jimboomba is a town of approximately 1400 persons, as recorded in the 2001 census, in south-eastern queensland, australia, on the mount lindesay highway 47 km south of brisbane. the town is in the beaudesert shire council local government area.  it has a number of primary schools, a high school, fire and ambulance services, a police station, domestic shopping and medical-dental services for the surrounding, largely, rural residential properties. it has a small industrial area that provides services for vehicles, irrigation and home-water supplies, produce supplies, light manufacturing and landscape gardening.

cattle grazing, dairy farming and hobby farms are the main industries. there are large numbers of horses kept on or near residential properties for riding, for pleasure and for competition.

jimboomba was serviced by the bethania-beaudesert branch railway line that was established to service the abattoir in beaudesert. the line was closed in 1992 and then reopened and operated as far as logan village by railway enthusiasts from 1999 until mid-2004. because of fire-damage to a stream over-bridge (immediately south of jimboomba, at cedar grove) and lack of funds the line has closed permanently.

the queensland government's current plan for the mt lindesay/north beaudesert area is that it will become part of the brisbane conurbation with jimboomba an outer suburb of brisbane by 2066 (or before). many people think that most probably it will be part of logan city.

however, this south east queensland regional draft plan that shows all of the northern part of beaudesert shire as an "investigation area" because of the large area around jimboomba that has been allocated to rural residential a and b (4000 to 10,000 m\b2 blocks) indicates the need for land to be redeveloped into much smaller housing units (450 to 600 m\b2). see http://www.oum.qld.gov.au/?id=579

jimboomba is an aboriginal name meaning - loud thunder little rain.

references.


external links.
 jimboomba state school;
 hills international college;
 beaudesert shire council;





</doc>
<doc id="8710694" title="ong hock thye" nonfiltered="1009" processed="995" dbindex="1019">
ong hock thye a malaysian judge on the courts of malaysia.





</doc>
<doc id="4367930" title="congregation shaare zedek" nonfiltered="1010" processed="996" dbindex="1020">
there are several congregations that share the name congregation shaare zedek.


montreal.
congregation shaare zedek in montreal is a jewish conservative synagogue located in the residential district of notre-dame-de-gr\e2ce in montreal, quebec, canada.  

founded in 1951 as the jewish congregation of western n.d.g the synagogue was established to meet the needs of those jewish families moving to western montreal and to set up a hebrew elementary school. 

at first, both school and services were housed in temporary locations until land was purchased and a building constructed. the new building, on chester in n.d.g., was ready in 1954; it was further expanded in 1962. in 1955, the school became affiliated with the united talmud torahs of montreal and is now rented as a day care center. started as an orthodox synagogue, the congregation changed to the conservative rite in 1955. the facade of the synagogue, added in 1985, depicts the ten commandments in blue neon lights

new york city.
congregation shaare zedek in new york city is a jewish synagogue located on west 93rd street in manhattan, currently led by rabbi julia andelman and president richard friedman.

shaare zedek was founded in 1837 and is the third oldest synagogue in new york.  the current location on 93rd street was developed in 1927.

 external links .
 shaare zedek montreal official website;
 shaare zedek new york offical website;









</doc>
<doc id="3211301" title="anna scripps whitcomb conservatory" nonfiltered="1011" processed="997" dbindex="1021">


the anna scripps whitcomb conservatory is a greenhouse and botanical garden in detroit, michigan. it covers 13 acres located three miles (4.8 km) east of the city's downtown on belle isle. it is open to the public free of charge every day of the year.  

the conservatory was built in 1904 to designs by noted architect albert kahn, and rebuilt 1952-1954 with aluminum replacing its original wooden beams.  it is the nation's oldest conservatory. in 1953 it was named in honor of anna scripps whitcomb, who left her 600-plant orchid collection to the city.  thanks to her gift and subsequent donations, the conservatory is now home to one of the largest municipally-owned orchid collections in the united states. rare orchids were saved from great britain during the world war ii bombing and transported to the anna scripps whitcomb conservatory. 

the conservatory site contains formal perennial gardens, annual flower beds, a rose garden, and lily pond garden. the conservatory itself covers more than an acre, features an imposing central dome 85 feet (26 m) high (with a total volume of 100,600 cubic feet), and is organized as a palm house in the dome, the north and south wings, and a show house. the south wing contains tropical plants of economic importance such as bananas, oranges, coffee, sugar cane, and orchids. the north wing hosts the extensive collections of ferns, cacti and succulents. the show house, remodeled 1980-1981, features a continuous display of blooming plants.

 see also .
 architecture of metropolitan detroit;
 belle isle (michigan);
 list of botanical gardens in the united states;

references.


;









</doc>
<doc id="7681046" title="b. h. fairchild" nonfiltered="1012" processed="998" dbindex="1022">
b.h. fairchild is an award-winning american poet and college professor.

born in 1942, b.h. fairchild grew up in small towns in the oil fields of oklahoma, texas, and kansas, later working through high school and college for his father, a lathe machinist.

he teaches english at california state university in san bernardino lives in claremont, california with his wife and daughter.

his poems have appeared in the new yorker, the paris review, the southern review, poetry, triquarterly, the hudson review, salmagundi, the sewanee review and other journals.

fairchild has written that a fellowship from the national endowment for the arts was vital to his career as a poet: "it's very simple: without an nea fellowship in 1989-90, i would not have been able to complete my second book, local knowledge, nor have had the necessary time to compose the core poems for the art of the lathe, my third book, which, i am proud to say, received the kingsley tufts award and was a finalist for the national book award, thus bringing my work to a wider audience than the immediate members of my family and also, therefore, making future work possible." 

books.
poetry. 
the system of which the body is one part;
flight;
local knowledge;
the art of the lathe (alice james books, 1998), awards: 1999 william carlos williams award, 1999 kingsley tufts poetry award, 1999 california book award, 1999 natalie ornish poetry award, 1999 pen center usa west poetry award, 1998 national book award finalist, 1997 beatrice hawley award, 1996 capricorn poetry award;
early occult memory systems of the lower midwest (w.w. norton), national book critics circle award for poetry (2002);

other.
such holy song, a study of william blake;

awards.
guggenheim fellowship;
rockefeller fellowship;
arthur rense poetry prize, 2002, from the american academy of arts and letters;
aiken taylor award for modern american poetry, 2005;
bobbitt national prize for poetry, 2004;
national book critics circle award;
william carlos williams award, 1999;
kingsley tufts poetry award, 1999;
california book award, 1999;
natalie ornish poetry award, 1999;
pen center usa west poetry award, 1999;
finalist, national book award, 1998;
beatrice hawley award, 1997;
capricorn poetry award, 1996;

walter e. dakin fellowship to the sewanee writers conference;
national writers  union first prize;
awp anniversary award;

notes.


external links.
article on fairchild's poems in contemporary poetry review ("the plains pastoral of b.h. fairchild" by christopher bakken, undated);

poetry online.
 a starlit night;
 for junior gilliam;
 "motion sickness;
 ernest thomson seton's biography of a grizzly (bottom of web page);
 two photographs,  old men playing basketball (bottom of web page);
 the problem, the deposition;






</doc>
<doc id="3616984" title="eldon dedini" nonfiltered="1014" processed="999" dbindex="1024">
eldon dedini (june 29, 1921   january 12, 2006) was a cartoonist whose work has appeared in the new yorker, playboy, and elsewhere.  he received the national cartoonists society gag cartoon award for 1958, 1961, 1964, and 1988 for his work.

fantagraphics books published a collection of his work, an orgy of playboy's dedini, isbn 1-56097-727-2 in 2006. the book is bundled with a documentary "dedini:  a life of cartoons" by anson musselman.

dedini's hometown of salinas, california, hosted an exhibition of his work, broccoli & babes: the cartoons and posters of eldon dedini, which ran from november 4, 2005 until january 20, 2006 at the sasoontsi gallery.

 references .
 flog! fantagraphics weblog archives accessed january 14, 2006;
 new york times report of death accessed january 14, 2006;
 monterey herald obituary accessed january 14, 2006;

external links.
ncs awards;









</doc>
<doc id="5621252" title="david mccooey" nonfiltered="1015" processed="1000" dbindex="1025">
dr. david mccooey, poet, critic and academic, was born in london in 1967. he moved to perth, western australia, with his family in 1970. he studied at university of western australia (1985-1988), and completed his doctorate at sydney university (1990-1993). he is currently a senior lecturer in literary studies at deakin university in geelong and regularly writes reviews for australian book review and the age. he has been the recipient of a number of arc (australian research council) awards. his critical work, artful histories: modern australian autobiography (cambridge university press), won a nsw premier's literary award in 1996. his poetry collection, blister pack (salt publishing), won the 2006 mary gilmore award. he is married to writer maria takolander. 

 publications .
 "artful histories: modern australian autobiography" (1996);
 "neither here nor there: suburban voices in australian poetry" in writing the everyday australian literature and the limits of suburbia (1998);
 "contemporary poetry: across party lines" in the cambridge companion to australian literature (2000) ;
 "orientalism and nostalgia: hal porter and japan" in selves crossing cultures: autobiography and globalisation (2002);
 "vestiges: narrative and autobiography in australian elegy" in la poesie australienne: une approche possible: le critique a l'oeuvre (2002);

 professional associations .

american association of australian literary studies

antipodes: the north american journal of australian literature life writing 

association for the study of australian literature 

josephine ulrick poetry prize (2003) 

national biography awards (2003)

victorian premier's literary awards (2004)










